Hid Amalthea, and her florid son 
Not to defer; hunger and thirst at once, 
the Middle Ages," replied the Professor, calmly, "but even upon
   Ham. Your loue, as mine to you: farewell.
hundred and fifty men.
away: for one covereth violence with his garment, saith the LORD of
A few moments later a roar of popular applause from the street beyond
     This man used the old feudal fables--properly, in his snobbish soul,

Ripples of unseen rivers, tides of a current flowing, forever flowing,
The original was all her own--her own happy thoughts
Alas! The hermit felt that his heart was breaking. Was this how he
And when he found that he was ahead of the threshers, he turned and
That Memorie, the Warder of the Braine,
Discern, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and
and would never have escaped it, if the lady hadn't had the sense



fiery vault over his head opened down the middle, and, reeling
sometimes venture to hit a fifth-form boy.  That was all the worth

Amnon said unto her, Arise, be gone.
gladness, but ran in, and told how Peter stood before the gate.
at some length, with reference to elucidating the sperm whale.
my dear."

so discreet and wise as thou art: 41:40 Thou shalt be over my house,

I had him sit next me at table, my fire-lock lean'd in the corner.

but that ye break my covenant: 26:16 I also will do this unto you; I
side, which was the breadth of the tabernacle.
yet, I'll be bound, in some of his doublings.  I knew the nature of him
Why all these things change from their Ordinance,

27:3 Then Judas, which had betrayed him, when he saw that he was
and the burnt offerings for the sabbaths, and for the new moons, and
3:11 Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hashub the son of Pahathmoab,
but now you will comprehend it.  To suffer you all to be
he was aware that, if the history of Susan's lamb ever reached the Abbey,

10:29 And Moses said, Thou hast spoken well, I will see thy face again
concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.

without fine speeches.  This is like an Englishman more than a Scotchman.
Anne felt truly obliged to her for such kindness; and quite as much
of the house of God, trembling because of this matter, and for the

young one that cometh out from between her feet, and toward her
the money.

great and terrible God, that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that

which produced his contemptuous treatment of every body,
28:19 He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that
forth out of the land of Egypt with their armies under the hand of
that poverty shall come upon him.

                               (Several voices join the chorus.)
peculiar dislike,--Susan Price, a sweet tempered, modest, sprightly,
1:14 And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away

world.  I shall begin to teach him to-morrow morning; and then, father,
heart to Hebron, to make David king over all Israel: and all the rest


"Stop a landslide!" said the keeper. "He is out of the gate!"
7:28 Hitherto is the end of the matter. As for me Daniel, my
but when she saw, on her frequent and minute examination,



out, with all his might,--
And dulcimer, all organs of sweet stop, 

in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it
26:5 And your threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage
of her own which must take her from Kellynch for several weeks,
15:29 And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came

102:27 But thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.



immense caravans, so that to a large degree the scattered solitaries,
The Archers all stood up as their cups were filled to drink the health of
nearer he fancied he could see people putting up the floral
will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the

twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubims of
like the dust by threshing.
Lombardy.  Yet is it bright with many a gem; I the wearer, see not
God?  therefore we will wait upon thee: for thou hast made all these


mourneth for Absalom.
to express; and before he could make any reply, Mr. Woodhouse,
102:28 The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed

and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted

Exit

it into Mr. Starbuck all the time--queer--sir--queer, queer, very
thee, lest thou be snared therin: for it is an abomination to the LORD
46:11 Go up into Gilead, and take balm, O virgin, the daughter of
purpose than to enrich Fanny.

Mrs. Dashwood was prudent enough to remain at the cottage,
16:10 And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of
     The Admiral lifted the hairless arches over his eyes and exclaimed:
and street dancing an eternal jig. And long afterwards, when Syme
half-throttled shriek you drop through that transparent air into the

3:2 And he wrought evil in the sight of the LORD; but not like his
The time was coming when the news must spread farther, and other persons'
between the threads, and idly looking off upon the water, carelessly
Up to the Heaven of Heavens, his high abode; 
of children: 47:9 But these two things shall come to thee in a moment
make your party without me, or I should have been at my
was, that all who knew them well had no doubt of their honesty; but many,
When they parted at the head of the walk she put out her hand
are clothed with strange apparel.
for it is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not in all

Marianne had now been brought by degrees, so much

them.
Dropped manna, and could make the worse appear 
another people;
And joined their vocal worship to the quire 

17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was

scanning them; no matter, though he stood so in the scuttle for a

on his return from Lyme before, his warm praise of him as
they fought with him.
11:30 If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things which concern
It shall be a statute for ever in your generations: ye shall celebrate
1:30 Neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the
that under the scarlet rag the hair was plentiful, but white as
was growing impatient to name the day, and settle with Mr. Weston
  Luc. I heare none Madam

81:9 There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship
The Try-Works.


66:18 For I know their works and their thoughts: it shall come, that I
visit me and see how nice it is to live in the city."
about it; and I'm afraid--though I'm very happy--that it is getting very
live parchment boilers; fore and aft, I say, the Samuel Enderby was a
11:20 When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not to
stork, and the heron after her kind, and the lapwing, and the bat.
Jehush the second, and Eliphelet the third.

should have let these lunatics out of their cells without good
33:24 And they removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah.
away.
    scaffolds everywhere,
the ever-rolling waves but made so by their restlessness.
5:15 See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,
felt every scruple of mine with multiplied strength and refinement.--
our dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret.
(looking at the book again, and replacing it on the table), he
to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the

mount, and to build a fort.
saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne, and unto
mother.
was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
friend, and if you know me to be yours.      (They shake hands.)
intuition was as infallible as the Pope. It was the spectacles that

Less the reminders of properties told my words,
gods.
and swung round to face them.  His carved smile had suddenly
28:3 He setteth an end to darkness, and searcheth out all perfection:
reason of this is obvious.  Gases are generated in him; he swells to

had changed her name since she was in these parts.

49:29 And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered
Mankind?  This mischief had not been befallen, 
delight himself with God.
intentions were; in all probability he was already in town.
This she had been prepared for when she entered the house;


on the whole to be most advantageous and honourable,
3:17 The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in
on the last evening of their being there; "when shall I cease
blood.  So that for an hour or more, a thousand fathoms in the sea,
in aid, it proceeded so smoothly as to enable her to remove,
have now as good a chance as Leonora, perhaps a better; and must I give

"If I didn't know that nobody else comes fishing here, I should think
And honest Caska, we haue the Falling sicknesse
entangled piece which Hal had pulled off his parcel.  He had diverted

It had taken them many months to make the terrible journey; many had

which it could not be in my power to satisfy."

"My picture!--But he has left my picture in Bond-street."
he would not ask it.
shoulder, and turning, found myself under the shadow of an enormous
They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at
an objective reality, it was at least a distant one. Tall houses

gather them.
Presence Divine; and to my sons relate, 
   Laer. Say you so? Come on.
house of the LORD.
the "charming" Miss Marianne laughed heartily, and looked at Sophy, as if
child unto him, and set him in the midst of them, 18:3 And said,
same Dr. Snodhead, so soon as he spied the book, assured me that "Dan
thy robe, and strengthen him with thy girdle, and I will commit thy

thinks I, 'look at it once; why, the end of it--the foot part--what a
upon all their armies: he hath utterly destroyed them, he hath
resolution, however, how soon an opportunity of exercising
considerable embarrassment.  Then his dubious eye roamed again to
it gives one quick and independent fingers. Syme, if we are to go
cakes unleavened tempered with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed
be much disturbed by Miss Bates.  Little things do not irritate him.
ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him.
Chariots of God, half on each hand, were seen; 
who has barely enough to live on.  If you do not call early it
104:13 He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied
as he had formerly taken pains to shew neglect.  This was very wonderful
the LORD, to do either good or bad of mine own mind; but what the LORD



so it had better go to Hartfield--at least the ribbon.  You could
come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart.
that, you know, was a long, long, long time ago. If you want to find Mr.
because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah
in an enquiry after Mrs Charles Musgrove, and her fine little boys,
even unto Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto Jordan.
two: for we are many that have transgressed in this thing.

Coxes five; and for five couple there will be plenty of room."
pale and silent.  The visit was of course short; and there was so
have penetrated a part.  I cannot doubt it.  You will find,
Mr. Elton's marrying, Harriet, is the strongest reproach you can

and the man in the high hat melted into the sea-fog again.

having once been within some thousand pounds of being

That when I recline on the grass I do not catch any disease,
Therefore, brethren, we were comforted over you in all our affliction
But let this same be presently perform'd,
churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden
the tongue of thy dogs in the same.
the Red Squirrel and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel were there. There they
Mrs. Elton left them no choice.  If Jane repressed her for a

she resolved to spend almost every hour of every day
may soon be entirely done away.  If we find they correspond,
The Musgroves, like their houses, were in a state of alteration,
Celestial armoury, shields, helms, and spears, 
Sperm Whale has any other brain than that palpable semblance of one

"prophetic eye" foresaw; but he felt within himself that spirit which
him which believeth in Jesus.
12:25 That there should be no schism in the body; but that the members
when ready, under a haystack, which he pointed out.

a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.
"What did you hear?"
18:10 And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the
those teeming creatures and tropical colours and smells that
Hoboyes play. The dumbe shew enters.
were actually at Hartfield, he was not able to make more than
the land of Egypt; Behold, I have sworn by my great name, saith the

for sale.  Isabella, after telling Mary what an excellent character she
the nursery rhymes, "the crooked man who went a crooked mile." He

retirement at home than he liked.  His importance at Enscombe was
strong drink, they are swallowed up of wine, they are out of the way
The whole past theory of your life and all conformity to the lives
45:6 For these two years hath the famine been in the land: and yet
of what SHE had to tell!--with such knowledge it was
all hard things visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an
sun over all.

"The rods! the rods!" cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished
"I do not know what I told her," he replied, impatiently;
31:11 And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob:
likewise.
13:21 And afterward they desired a king: and God gave unto them Saul
10:13 For he saith, By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by
to heave and swell; the submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries
to the exceedingly great inconvenience of sending her
whirlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the LORD, and
king.
to one another, and laugh at my old ways behind my back.
frenzies of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up,
and maidens, and had servants born in my house; also I had great
doing?' Alice whispered to the Gryphon. 'They can't have anything to put
CHAPTER II
frequent, in deaths oft.
was so just and so apparent, that Emma, well as she knew her father,


His life was gentle, and the Elements
playing round him, was passing up the hill and within
but when he was gone, she began to be a little tranquillised
numerous implements which have been in use are likewise faithfully
They both swung round abruptly and saw that Turnbull, with his
to her own little farmhouse, and she went in and locked the door with
But ever to do ill our sole delight, 

And vengeance to the wicked, at return 
is become the head of the corner.
Observatory, Washington, April 16th, 1851.  By that circular, it
tells me, 'twill be the finest ever seen at HEton.  Louisa, my dear, I'm
gloomy about this.
pressing of both the others.  Emma wished to go to work directly,
night the ship's black hull still houses an illumination.
from the old black top hat on his head to the solid black boots
With lightly closed fists and arms partially rais'd.
once.

and, therefore, must understand the terms on which it
tares?  13:28 He said unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servants

And all the people shouted with a great shout, when they praised the
Then may I trust in you, your fortunes, days, my country;

the theatre.
11:10 For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head because
by all her principles, admire it:--elegance, which, whether of person

11:45 For I am the LORD that bringeth you up out of the land of Egypt,
to-day; see that you do better to-morrow."

But every circumstance that could embitter such an evil
there was the trouble of getting it to them; and then one
Marianne had retreated as much as possible
downward gazing eyes the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up
to mark them excepting the receipt of a note or two from Lyme,
48:12 Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will
12:17 He leadeth counsellors away spoiled, and maketh the judges
But soft, but soft, aside; heere comes the King.
7:21 The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.

Turnbull nodded gravely and glanced round at the huge and




29:34 And if ought of the flesh of the consecrations, or of the bread,
97:9 For thou, LORD, art high above all the earth: thou art exalted
As low and wailing, yet clear the notes, rising and falling,
He traveling with me needs the best blood, thews, endurance,
pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee: 31:52 This heap be
you talk about mobs and the working classes as if they were the
highest credit?--(here was a side-glance of great meaning at Jane.)
4:8 Therefore the kinsman said unto Boaz, Buy it for thee. So he drew


But to learn all about these recondite matters, your best way is at
to sojourn there: 43:3 But Baruch the son of Neriah setteth thee on
themselves ready to bear any punishment their master thought proper.
give you the kingdom.
he doesn't conceal the family crimes--but--"
25:46 And ye shall take them as an inheritance for your children after
They were, of course, very anxious to see a person on
52:31 And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth year of the
exclaiming,

mass sways to and fro as if let down from the sky, and every one
from jealousy.--In Jane's eyes she had been a rival; and well might
out of the room, and as soon as the door was closed,

"Avast! heave to!  I mean when you die, cook.  It's an awful
Tine the slant lightning; whose thwart flame, driven down 
the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar, he shall bring the
8:9 All this have I seen, and applied my heart unto every work that is
Is this the love, is this the recompence 
in countenance and disposition; and if I might be allowed to fancy you


They took their places gravely in the very centre of the great
in far countries; and they shall live with their children, and turn
28:8 For all tables are full of vomit and filthiness, so that there is
1:10 Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your
all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead

Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the
"Thank you!" said the motionless Syme. "You are very good."
places are holy, whereunto the ark of the LORD hath come.
should he carry on his arm, but a buckler.  In good time, though, to
But with an angry wafter of your hand

answer, the poor clown was transfigured with joy, for he knew that his

45:25 In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month, shall

But this is not all.  New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel, after at
box which is twice as large as itself."
5:18 Behold that which I have seen: it is good and comely for one to
sheweth mercy, and giveth.


so long as she lived; but now she is quite come to,
most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod's
15:9 And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and the strangers with
all returned!--and a few lines at the same time by the post,
high rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie:


She would have liked to know how he felt as to a meeting.

blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into his
7:13 I saw in the night visions, and, behold, one like the Son of man
City of orgies, walks and joys,

too--shall I bring him down to-morrow?"
And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a sort of
marks of some swift tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.

harpoon, because it was of assured stuff, well tried in many a mortal
Eternal I rise impalpable out of the land and the bottomless sea,
if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins.
Hath, unbesought, provided; and his hands 

MacIan, who had not spoken yet, made one stride forward and stood

appearance of fire, and it had brightness round about.
a gentleman!  I doubt whether he will return the compliment,
Vnsifted in such perillous Circumstance.
"Emma, I must once more speak to you as I have been used to do:
33:7 He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth
A Villaine killes my Father, and for that
could not but be named by him, in the little narratives or descriptions
people to set it down for certain."
Magnificence; and what can Heaven show more? 
We welcome what we wrought for through the past,
9:13 Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man,
hath a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument: for they
child.

in their heads.  Their tawny features, now all begrimed with smoke
About 70 North Providence taxpayers made appeals to the board of tax assessors for a review of their 1961 tax assessments during the last two days at the town hall in Centredale . These were the last two days set aside by the board for hearing appeals . Appeals were heard for two days two weeks ago . About 75 persons appeared at that time . Louis H. Grenier , clerk of the board , said that the appeals will be reviewed in December at the time the board is visiting new construction sites in the town for assessment purposes . They also will visit properties on which appeals have been made . Any adjustments which are made , Mr. Grenier said earlier this month , will appear on the balance of the tax bill since most of the town's taxpayers take the option of paying quarterly with the balance due next year . John Pezza , 69 , of 734 Hartford Avenue , Providence , complained of shoulder pains after an accident in which a car he was driving collided with a car driven by Antonio Giorgio , 25 , of 12 DeSoto St. , Providence , on Greenville Avenue and Cherry Hill Road in Johnston yesterday . Mr. Giorgio had started to turn left off Greenville Avenue onto Cherry Hill Road when his car was struck by the Pezza car , police said . Both cars were slightly damaged . Mr. Pezza was taken to a nearby Johnston physician , Dr. Allan A. DiSimone , who treated him . Mr. Giorgio was uninjured . Thieves yesterday ransacked a home in the Garden Hills section of Cranston and stole an estimated $3,675 worth of furs , jewels , foreign coins and American dollars . Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kochanek reported the theft at their home on 41 Garden Hills Drive at about 6 last night . They told police the intruders took a mink coat worth $700 , a black Persian lamb jacket worth $450 ; ; a wallet with $450 in it ; ; a collection of English , French and German coins , valued at $500 ; ; four rings , a watch and a set of pearl earrings . One of the rings was a white gold band with a diamond setting , valued at $900 . The others were valued at $325 , $75 and $65 . The watch was valued at $125 and the earrings at $85 . The Kochaneks told police they left home at 8 a.m. and returned about 45 p.m. and found the house had been entered . Patrolman Robert J. Nunes , who investigated , said the thieves broke in through the back door . Drawers and cabinets in two bedrooms and a sewing room were ransacked . The city sewer maintenance division said efforts will be made Sunday to clear a stoppage in a sewer connection at Eddy and Elm Streets responsible for dumping raw sewage into the Providence River . The division said it would be impossible to work on the line until then because of the large amount of acid sewage from jewelry plants in the area flowing through the line , heavy vehicle traffic on Eddy Street and tide conditions . A two-family house at 255 Brook Street has been purchased by Brown University from Lawrence J. Sullivan , according to a deed filed Monday at City Hall . F. Morris Cochran , university vice president and business manager , said the house has been bought to provide rental housing for faculty families , particularly for those here for a limited time . Employes of Pawtucket's garbage and rubbish collection contractor picketed the firm's incinerator site yesterday in the second day of a strike for improved wages and working conditions . Thomas Rotelli , head of Rhode Island Incinerator Service , Inc. , said four of the company's eight trucks were making collections with both newly hired and regular workers . Sydney Larson , a staff representative for the United Steel Workers , which the firm's 25 workers joined before striking , said the state Labor Relations Board has been asked to set up an election to pick a bargaining agent . A 62-year-old Smithfield man , Lester E. Stone of 19 Beverly Circle , was in satisfactory condition last night at Our Lady of Fatima Hospital , North Providence , with injuries suffered when a car he was driving struck a utility pole on Woonasquatucket Avenue in North Providence near Stevens Street . Mr. Stone suffered fractured ribs and chest cuts , hospital authorities said . He was taken to the hospital by the North Providence ambulance . Before hitting the pole , Mr. Stone's car brushed against a car driven by Alva W. Vernava , 21 , of 23 Maple Ave. , North Providence , tearing away the rear bumper and denting the left rear fender of the Vernava car , police said . Mr. Vernava was uninjured . The impact with the utility pole caused a brief power failure in the immediate area of the accident . One house was without power for about half an hour , a Narragansett Electric Co. spokesman said . The power was off for about five minutes in houses along Smith Street as far away as Fruit Hill Avenue shortly before 5 p.m. when the accident occurred . The fight over the Warwick School Committee's appointment of a coordinator of audio-visual education may go to the state Supreme Court , it appeared last night . Two members of the Democratic-endorsed majority on the school board said they probably would vote to appeal a ruling by the state Board of Education , which said yesterday that the school committee acted improperly in its appointment of the coordinator , Francis P. Nolan 3rd , the Democratic-endorsed committee chairman , could not be reached for comment . In its ruling , the state Board of Education upheld Dr. Michael F. Walsh , state commissioner of education , who had ruled previously that the Warwick board erred when it named Maurice F. Tougas as coordinator of audio-visual education without first finding that the school superintendent's candidate was not suitable . Supt. Clarence S. Taylor had recommended Roger I. Vermeersch for the post . Milton and Rosella Lovett of Cranston were awarded $55,000 damages from the state in Superior Court yesterday for industrial property which they owned at 83 Atwells Ave. , Providence , and which was condemned for use in construction of Interstate Route 95 . The award was made by Judge Fred B. Perkins who heard their petition without a jury by agreement of the parties . The award , without interest , compared with a valuation of $57,500 placed on the property by the property owners' real estate expert , and a valuation of $52,500 placed on it by the state's expert . The property included a one-story brick manufacturing building on 8,293 square feet of land . Saul Hodosh represented the owners . Atty. Gen. J. Joseph Nugent appeared for the state . Santa's lieutenants in charge of the Journal-Bulletin Santa Claus Fund are looking for the usual generous response this year from Cranston residents . Persons who find it convenient may send their contributions to the Journal-Bulletin's Cranston office at 823 Park Avenue . All contributed will be acknowledged . The fund's statewide quota this year is $8,250 to provide Christmas gifts for needy youngsters . Scores of Cranston children will be remembered . Cranston residents have been generous contributors to the fund over the years . Public school children have adopted the fund as one of their favorite Christmas charities and their pennies , nickels , dimes and quarters aid greatly in helping Santa to reach the fund's goal . Bernard Parrillo , 20 , of 19 Fletcher Ave. , Cranston , was admitted to Roger Williams Hospital shortly before 11:30 a.m. yesterday after a hunting accident in which a shotgun he was carrying discharged against his heel . Mr. Parrillo was given first aid at Johnston Hose 1 . ( Thornton ) where he had been driven by a companion . The two had been hunting in the Simmonsville area of town and Mr. Parrillo dropped the gun which fired as it struck the ground . Hospital officials said the injury was severe but the youth was in good condition last night . A check for $4,177.37 representing the last payment of a $50,000 federal grant to Rhode Island Hospital was presented to the hospital administrator , Oliver G. Pratt , yesterday by Governor Notte . The hospital has used the money to assist in alterations on the fifth floor of the Jane Brown Hospital , part of Rhode Island Hospital . The work added eight beds to the hospital , giving it a total capacity of 646 general beds . Vincent Sorrentino , founder and board chairman of the Uncas Mfg. Co. , has been designated a Cavaliere of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Italy . The decoration will be presented by A. Trichieri , Italian consul general in Boston , at a ceremony at 30 p.m. on Dec. 7 at the plant , which this year is celebrating its golden anniversary . About 500 employes of the firm will be on hand to witness bestowal of the honor upon Mr. Sorrentino . Mr. Sorrentino will be honored on the evening of Dec. 7 at a dinner to be given by the Aurora Club at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel . The Newport-based destroyer picket escort Kretchmer has arrived back at Newport after three months' patrol in North Atlantic waters marked by mercy jobs afloat and ashore . On Sept. 6 , the Kretchmer rescued the crew of a trawler they found drifting on a life raft after they had abandoned a sinking ship . In August while stopping in Greenock , Scotland , three members of the crew on liberty rendered first aid to a girl who fell from a train . Local authorities credited the men with saving the girl's life . Birmingham , Ala. -- ( AP ) -- The FBI yesterday arrested on a perjury charge one of the members of the jury that failed to reach a verdict in the `` Freedom Rider '' bus burning trial four weeks ago . U.S. Attorney Macon Weaver said the federal complaint , charged that the juror gave false information when asked about Ku Klux Klan membership during selection of jury . He identified the man as Lewis Martin Parker , 59 , a farmer of Hartselle , Ala. . Eight men were tried together in U.S. District Court in Anniston , Ala. , on charges of interfering with interstate transportation and conspiracy growing out of a white mob's attack on a Greyhound bus carrying the first of the Freedom Riders . The bus was burned outside Anniston . One of the eight defendants was freed on a directed verdict of acquittal . A mistrial was declared in the case against the other seven when the jury was unable to agree on a verdict . The arrest of Mr. Parker marks the third charge of wrongdoing involving the jury that heard the case . The first incident occurred before the trial got under way when Judge H. Hobart Grooms told the jury panel he had heard reports of jury-tampering efforts . He asked members of the panel to tell him if anyone outside the court had spoken to them about the case . Two members of the panel later told in court about receiving telephone calls at their homes from anonymous persons expressing interest in the trial . Neither was seated on the jury . Then , when the case went to the jury , the judge excused one of the jurors , saying the juror had told him he had been accosted by masked men at his motel the night before the trial opened . The juror said the masked men had advised him to be lenient . The judge replaced the juror with an alternate . No formal charges have been filed as a result of either of the two reported incidents . At the opening of the trial , the jury panel was questioned as a group by Mr. Weaver about Ku Klux Klan connections . One member of the panel -- not Mr. Parker -- indicated he had been a member of the KKK at one time . He was not seated on the jury . The perjury charge against Mr. Parker carries a maximum penalty of $2,000 fine and five years imprisonment on conviction . New York -- ( UPI ) -- The New York University Board of Trustees has elected the youngest president in the 130-year history of NYU , it was announced yesterday . The new president is 37-year-old Dr. James McN. Hester , currently dean of the NYU Graduate School of Arts and Sciences . He will take over his new post Jan. 1 . Dr. Hester , also one of the youngest men ever to head a major American university , succeeds Dr. Carroll V. Newsom who resigned last September to join Prentice-Hall Inc. publishing firm . Dr. Hester , of Princeton , N.J. , is a native of Chester , Pa. He joined NYU in September , 1960 . Prior to that he was associated with Long Island University in Brooklyn .
the priest's, so is the trespass offering: it is most holy: 14:14 And

the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool.
Tended the sick busiest from couch to couch; 

Here Arthur was interrupted by the attorney, who came to ask Mr. Oakly
27:23 And he laid his hands upon him, and gave him a charge, as the

And Joshua answered them, If thou be a great people, then get thee up
perish; but thou remainest; and they all shall wax old as doth a
Stubb was the second mate.  He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence,
prophets of the groves four hundred, which eat at Jezebel's table.
nothing but these poor creatures all the rest of the day; and yet,
To hellish falshood, snare them!  But for thee 
I see tremendous entrances and exits, new combinations, the solidarity
covering of the altar: 16:40 To be a memorial unto the children of
in the desert.
   Ham. Do not beleeue it
Millo, and went, and made Abimelech king, by the plain of the pillar
fast--and I'm a foot and a half taller.  You'll be washed away

To limn their portraits, stately, beautiful, and emulate at will,
The connoisseur peers along the exhibition-gallery with half-shut

a plough. I suppose you have seen ploughs, but Margery never had, and
 Whose ears have heard
2:17 But we, brethren, being taken from you for a short time in
I understand them, I know those flames, those perturbations well.)
Or flitting from brier to brier by day,
said he, "but it was impossible, for we were obliged

in life.
my father and sister.  I never knew him myself; I only heard of him;

The House-keeper, the Hunter, euery one

told me himself.  I met him just now.  He told me it was to be
gold-beater's skin hammered out to the extremest.  Bobbing up and
45:24 And he shall prepare a meat offering of an ephah for a bullock,
All the mutter of preparation, all the determin'd arming,

whom she had never seen in her life, and of whose elegance,--
the bald head of the wigless Duke.  Then the silence was snapped
3:11 And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, and

Somehow, she contrived to keep him hidden for three whole months. But at
Elinor could NOT remember it;--but her mother,
By spiritual, to themselves appropriating 
room light in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
104:17 Where the birds make their nests: as for the stork, the fir
execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man.
Shall I postpone my acceptation and realization and scream at my eyes,
"My dear, you said that Miss Campbell would not allow him to be plain,

ever.
the things that come into your mind, every one of them.
That Mothers shall but smile, when they behold

    going, hurrying sea waves.
95:6 O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the LORD
Is left this Vault, to brag of.
All these States compact, every square mile of these States without
BY
19:31 For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they that

thousand feet straight up into the air; then spiralized downwards,
thy law.
the three old kings of Cologne.  Her ancient decks were worn and
all the Great World, and all the Great World seemed to be smiling back.
run before him.
3:9 Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be?
we have translated it by the word Goody.


And what may else be remedy or cure 
faggot.  Won't that be better than crying?" said her brother.  "Should
Assyria.
on my principal; and I shall go through with it.  Old Dubosc may be
Haue minde vpon your health: Tempt me no farther
2:7 And they were all amazed and marvelled, saying one to another,

blacksmith was commanded to proceed at once to the forging of
in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
"It was nearly three years after this unhappy
I mark the vista of waters, I mark the uplands and slopes;
"Leonora! Leonora!" called her impatient companions; "don't you hear us?



on a bed at noon.


strength, which periodically started the boat along the water like a
widow.  That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed the
are about us.
evident from his expansive manner that he was the owner of the
giants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were
jackanapes!

pronounce it right. Then they took him, and slew him at the passages
21:29 For the tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses made in the
envying.

17:14 Notwithstanding they would not hear, but hardened their necks,
strength: even to him shall men come; and all that are incensed
Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every

Flatly unjust, to bind with laws the free, 
"What's this? here's velvet shark-skin," intently gazing at Ahab's
righteousness which is in the law, blameless.
Jane and her aunt.--The rest I leave to you.  I have no objections
said Mr. Knightley dryly, "writes to a fair lady like Miss Woodhouse,
or whether they should bring him in and blow up the gunpowder at
The pilgrim walking down it begins to think he will never come to
fire from off the altar before the LORD, and his hands full of sweet

dwelling in the country.
    bard of personality,
thing!' said the Queen, 'and take this young lady to see the Mock
4:4 And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, she judged Israel
he was reckless, and poked his head into the corner.  After
135:10 Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings;
footstool: what house will ye build me? saith the Lord: or what is the
spirit to go; and the wheels were lifted up over against them: for the

"No, no, I won't indeed," said Bell; but she had learned from her maid a
so steady; he never goes back from what he has said."
"Go to him, go to him," cried Anne, "for heaven's sake go to him.
LORD, that Solomon had asked this thing.
15:2 Three years reigned he in Jerusalem. and his mother's name was
"No doubt you're right," said MacIan, and dashed past him in
said Franklin, giving his hand rather proudly, and he walked away.
and that she wishes for nothing so much as to be on good terms
to appear; he knows us, and he would smell a rat. We cannot pretend
for some impulse unexplainable, he stopped his cab so as to pick it
quarrel against any: even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye.



interest than anyone else in there being some decent government.


up the grass and eat it; he was interfering with nature, if there
Much reason, and in their actions, oft appears. 
Unknown, which human knowledge could not reach; 

shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to
priests, and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great:
29:12 Then the Levites arose, Mahath the son of Amasai, and Joel the
30:24 The fierce anger of the LORD shall not return, until he hath

of a very different description.


To morrow, and to morrow, and to morrow,
Where could you expect a more gentlemanlike, agreeable man?
fallen angels.  The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile, and
2:5 And they called the name of that place Bochim: and they sacrificed
Louisa returned; and Mary, finding a comfortable seat for herself
son of Zaccur.
thy brethren.
"My dearest papa! You do not think I could mean _you_, or suppose

A various mould, and from the boiling cells 
A fine place, but very retired."
that the cause why they are going to live in a slated house now?"

by herself--but even he had never been able to finish the subject


that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.
the young men, and they are dead; and I only am escaped alone to tell
          `And waste its fragrance on the desert air.'
us, that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were
was unfortunately too infirm to mix with the world,

The beautiful and noble ship with all her precious wealth speeds
heart to save and to bless.  From beneath his slouched hat Ahab
"But, since we are here," said Sir Arthur, "let me do my own business,
his Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which

lamb from a rich neighbour on my estate," said he, "I am afraid we should
to destroy them; 9:25 But when Esther came before the king, he
so as ye have us for an ensample.

with you. Yes, I have rather a heavy cloud in my head. There is a

yet the word ROSE, and the bulbous figure-head put together,

11:36 Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him!  11:37 And some of

unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion; for he loved Hannah: but the

seen against the sunrise.
mother's pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for
I have something to communicate that will astonish you not a little.
mercies.

The wind was piping free;
in need of more money himself than to have any design of
Fainting in Coils.'
of the world, but she would soon shew them how every thing ought
So great a day as this is cheapely bought

saw him. They actually flew into the very tree under which he was
True is, me also he hath judged, or rather 
"Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw," murmured Starbuck
As a house, Barton Cottage, though small, was comfortable
Can touch him further
none to remain: 2:35 Only the cattle we took for a prey unto

Thee lastly, nuptial bower! by me adorned 

their wants.  She has a whole lake's contents bottled in her ample
**What are in Ireland called moats, are, in England, called Danish
and it was hardly less inevitable that poor little Harriet must
meeting a bleeding Captaine.

was spent by me in deliberating on what my future conduct

universities) with a good family; without which introduction it was idle
in the sky.
received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it.
18:2 And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the
by; something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us.  The
I am comfortably off here for accommodation, wine and cigars,
almost knee-deep.
And tidings fraught, to Hell he now returned; 
To whom the guileful Tempter thus replied. 
38:28 So Jeremiah abode in the court of the prison until the day that

Mr. Bursal loses fifty thousand pounds, it is said, by the Airly Castle!

I swear they are averaged now--one is no better than the other,
                    "humble servant,

in a tenement or (quite likely) in a jail.  You don't allow for our


  Laer. Why aske you this?

muttered on: "The things called omens!  And yesterday I talked the

be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree: 21:23 His body shall not
pitcher, and came up.
boat's stern in token of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary.
2:8 The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith the LORD of hosts.
The intelligence, which had been so anxiously announced to her,
    were prepared,
the captain's, on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter.
A rough looking Farmer is sitting with his back towards them, eating
swaths--Starbuck!"
but now the LORD hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hands of
so that Mrs. Elton's praise passed from one mouth to another as it
taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and time.
Nor the compliments that have served their turn so long,
"Yes," answered Ducroix, "you may be quite certain that I gave
and pictures her to herself, with an affection for him so strong,
     "Well?" asked his companion patiently.
 Calling the lapsed soul,
stretched the line upon it?  38:6 Whereupon are the foundations
despised them; and they shall know that I am the Lord GOD.
13:19 Who is he that will plead with me? for now, if I hold my tongue,
seed into the ground; 4:27 And should sleep, and rise night and day,
While waiting till the other young people could pair themselves off,

     "To hurt yourselves," answered the priest.  "I would not
30:9 What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit?
happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip's seat.  The
and she it was who told me you were to marry Mr Elliot.

above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and Moses burned
15:25 And the king said unto Zadok, Carry back the ark of God into the
'EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants. 'Well, I'll eat it,' said
and determined that a well-looking groom, who was strolling about

FIRMLY FIXED IN THE VICE.  SLABS OF IVORY, LEATHER STRAPS, PADS,
what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for?  8:25 But if we hope for
a cloke of covetousness; God is witness: 2:6 Nor of men sought we

before the wind, rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of
tabernacle.
two thoroughfares which might have been called two high streets
THINGS ARE HERE!  I'm sure we are much obliged to you and your cousin.  I
them after your own Honor and Dignity. The lesse they
Spiritual substance with corporeal bar. 
had been their lasting effect.
"there will be no one to let you out."

Then she added after a short pause, and with a sort of pride:
understand you,' she said, as politely as she could.
23:14 And, behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth: and
them that brought up Ahab's children, saying, 10:2 Now as soon as this
will be best known in Bath as the renter of Kellynch Hall.
more of thy matters? I have said, Thou and Ziba divide the land.



In Rankes and Squadrons, and right forme of Warre
But soon revives; Death over him no power 
Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with a poor old
  Octa. What man is that?

I, a child, very old, over waves, towards the house of maternity,
again.


desolate, and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that are
    inexhaustible?)
for herself beyond the most common-place inquiry or remark.
7:10 But if thou fear to go down, go thou with Phurah thy servant down
that there could be nothing ungentlemanlike, in the way of business, in
furbished, to consume because of the glittering: 21:29 Whiles they see
of SPIRIT, to do ill-natured things:  "A warm friend and a bitter enemy,"
50:18 When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and
for a month or six weeks.  I have this moment heard that the Crofts
every other place of the same degree of importance,
Of stern Achilles on his foe pursued 

are not seen are eternal.
Yet let me not be too hasty,

The beast he took hold of seemed very small, and, as he mounted, he felt
tempered and good-natured and fond of you."
16:17 And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall
for thy good.
2:5 Yea also, because he transgresseth by wine, he is a proud man,
To dew the Soueraigne Flower, and drowne the Weeds:
We none of us expect to be in smooth water all our days."

33:10 Thus saith the LORD; Again there shall be heard in this place,
anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest's office.
even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall: he spake also of

there, perhaps, some such fatalism in friendship as all lovers
Of ships sailing the seas, each with its special flag or ship-signal,
went from him.
blew the trumpet for the swords to cross--even then, if one of them
"but not for me, or for Archers in general, if you please.  We unbarred
4:27 Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from
Invite them both."

to the Abbey two evenings ago, on purpose to consult me about it.
A thousand warbling echoes have started to life within me, never to die.
were Ulam and Rakem.
some time for their completion, after experiencing,
and so much in love with Miss Fairfax, and she was so happy herself,
thing unto my master, the LORD's anointed, to stretch forth mine hand
nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.
with one of his innumerable eyes.
off all his hair, and wash himself in water, that he may be clean: and
'I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.
for though she had intended to begin with Frank Churchill, she could
unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak tablets sympathetically
pieces.
me: for they were too strong for me.
     "The Cross of Christ be between me and harm," said Father Brown.

the whale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings--that all this



seven hundred chariots of the Syrians, and forty thousand horsemen,
That with the Mightiest raised me to contend, 
which was putting herself rather out of her way;
the river: and they came to Helam; and Shobach the captain of the host
Marianne was in a silent agony, too much oppressed even

evils, when he was summoned to try his skill with his FAMOUS bow.
Behold thy sturdy blacksmiths swinging their sledges,
of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall ye break a bone
with all my ways.
heavens.

there was a fine, boisterous something about everything connected
you are a grateful little girl, and that you are glad to be of use to
had done. And he took them, and went aside privately into a desert

"What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned
twists betrayed its purpose and led abruptly up two or three
   Wife. Thou speak'st withall thy wit,
black beard and clumsy black umbrella made him seem both shorter
extremely good; and Harriet would have seemed almost too lucky,
23:13 And she looked, and, behold, the king stood at his pillar at the
bones shall be burnt upon thee.

near every body, and say every thing.  My dear Emma, I am longing
much obliged to you; I always thought that exceedingly pretty, and this,
case of Fugacity (Mr. Whimpey), who imagines that he was chased
And the mere name struck Syme cold and serious; his laughter had
pursued after Israel no more, neither fought they any more.
Against such hellish mischief fit to oppose. 
I am not to be denied, I compel, I have stores plenty and to spare,
against previous inclination.  She had been repeatedly very earnest

and eat. Now you know that Buster is a very big fellow, and it takes a
Where are you off to, lady? for I see you,
to the Grappler that instant, and never left the poor fellow for a week.
devices, and we will every one do the imagination of his evil heart.
overboard; and by and by we scrambled down, so sober, that we had to
38:21 But if thou refuse to go forth, this is the word that the LORD
like all other qualities of the mind, it should have its proportions
and him that hath no helper.
Gentle to me and affable hath been 
They all left him then and returned. The tailor and his wife came home
of seeking it.
tub, and hanging over its edge completely disengaged from everything.
Send word to you, he would be there to morrow
 Rising from unrest,
sanctuary.
them with blindness according to the word of Elisha.
was apparently cherishing very reprehensible feelings.
Yet underneath Socrates clearly see, and underneath Christ the divine I see,
far country for a long time.
This event had very lately taken place; too lately for any thing to be
however, she may now, and hereafter doubtless WILL
cross on the cathedral, and insulted an archangel."
profession chosen for me, or being allowed to chuse any myself,
78:34 When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and
of his servants: and afterward it shall be inhabited, as in the days

Is past, and we shall live.  Whence hail to thee, 

when she might not bear to see herself.  She spoke as she felt,
15:14 And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also
The impalpable sustenance of me from all things at all hours of the day,
of Tolstoy.  But he was neither an anarchist nor an antipatriot;
broad-brim was placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed; his

of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of



Erring; for he with this rebellious rout 
seemed to be many more people, whether patients or attendants,
large voice for so small a creature!"
with herself again.
the other two, he only repeated that it was one of his fast-days,
and give them unto the father of the damsel, because he hath brought

such a miser as I took him for"; and he walked immediately up to Grant,
should see nothing suspicious or inconsistent, nothing to require
and most wise, and, therefore must involve least suffering
   For he can thoroughly enjoy
14:5 A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter
And wager on your heads, he being remisse,
10:6 And she said to the king, It was a true report that I heard in
to find out; I ask it as a favour.  He went down there"--and he jerked
"Fanny is in her own room, I suppose," said he:--"I
Desirous to resign and render back 

ESSEX OF NANTUCKET, WHICH WAS ATTACKED AND FINALLY DESTROYED BY A
Around the idea of thee.
remaining: as he had done to Hebron, so he did to Debir, and to the
Howbeit whereinsoever any is bold, (I speak foolishly,) I am bold
I wear my hat as I please indoors or out.
132:17 There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a
'So they were,' said the Dormouse; 'VERY ill.'

own father."
    What made you so awfully clever?'
watched by her till this excess of suffering had somewhat
11:12 And he brought forth the king's son, and put the crown upon him,
and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ishbosheth, who lay
me.
Men showed their own white feather as proudly as a plume.
country.  He was merely a man.
house, and after it is plaistered; 14:44 Then the priest shall come
Squared in full legion (such command we had) 
itself, even though they are equally long absent from home.  For one
"Till I have a letter from Colonel Campbell," said she, in a voice
cooling in a row on the doorstep.
    plain sight,
opposed to Captain Wentworth, in all his own unwelcome obtrusiveness;
from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work.
therefore will we also serve the LORD; for he is our God.
covered our faces: for strangers are come into the sanctuaries of the
25:22 The fifteenth to Jeremoth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
shepherd of his flock? where is he that put his holy Spirit within
22:22 And God's anger was kindled because he went: and the angel of
Charles and Henrietta returned, bringing, as may be conjectured,
into the house of the LORD: and the priests that kept the door put
flukes from side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the
I erewhile saw, with erect head, pressing ever in front, bearing a
2:2 (And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of
And then rising, she went away to join Marianne,
riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt.




trumpets, and the rereward came after the ark, the priests going on,
weak conscience, ye sin against Christ.
though), 'I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT ALL. Soup does very
Minding their voices peal through the crash of destruction,
To guilty Shame; he covered, but his robe 
eyes of the stupid vulgar.  My genius has broken through the clouds of
The animal spirits, that from pure blood arise 
rose with the resilient rapidity of which the Professor had
that she soon allowed herself to believe her visit had been

over Jordan; Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Joseph,
   Bru. Cassius,
}  Out of the Rolling Ocean the Crowd
There had been signs and portents like the regular toppling over and defacing of the bust of Lauro Di Bosis near the Villa Lante and in the Gianicolo . Something was happening all right , slowly it is true , but you could feel it . The Italians felt it . Little things . An Italian poet had noticed plainclothes policemen lounging around the area of Quirinal Palace , the first time since the war . At least they hadn't stepped up and asked to see papers in the hated , flat , dialect mispronunciation of Mussolini's home district -- Dogumenti , per favore . But , who knew , that might be coming one of these days . There were other Italians who still bore scars they had earned in police station basements , resisting . They laughed and , true to national form and manners , never talked long or solemnly on any subject at all , but some of them worried out loud about short memories and ghosts . We saw Giuseppe Berto at a party once in a while , tall , lean , nervous and handsome , and , in our opinion , the best novelist of them all except Pavese , and Pavese is dead . Berto's The Sky Is Red had been a small masterpiece and in its special way the best book to come out of the war . Now he was married to a beautiful girl , had a small son , and lived in an expensive apartment and worked for the movies . On his desk was a slowly accumulating treatment and script of The Count Of Monte Cristo . On his bookshelves were some of the latest American novels , including Bellow's Seize The Day , but he hadn't read them ( they were sent by American publishers ) and wasn't especially interested in what the American writers were up to . He was interested in Robert Musil's The Man Without Qualities . So were a lot of other people . He was interested in Italo Svevo . He was thinking his way into a new novel , a big one , one that people had been waiting for . It was going to be hard going all the way because he hadn't written seriously for a while , except for a few stories , was tired of the old method of realismo he had so successfully used in The Sky Is Red . This one was going to be different . He had bought a little piece of property down along the coast of the hard country of Calabria that he knew so well . He was going to do one or two more films for cash and then chuck it all , leave Rome and its intellectual cliques and money-fed life , go back to Calabria . Berto seemed worried , too . He knew all about it and had put it down in journal form in The War In A Black Shirt , a wonderful book not , for some strange reason , published in the U.S. . He knew all about the appeal of a black shirt and jackboots to a poor , southern , peasant boy . He knew all about the infection and the fever , and , too , the moment of realization when he saw for himself , threw up his hands and quit , ended the war as a prisoner in Texas . Berto knew all about Fascism . So did his friend , the young novelist Rimanelli . Rimanelli is tough and square-built and adventurous , says what he thinks . He had put it down in a war novel , The Day Of The Lion . These people were not talking much about it , but you , a foreigner , sensed their apprehension and disappointment . So there we were talking around and about it . The English lady said she had to go to Vienna for a while . It was a pity because she had planned to lay a wreath at the foot of the Garibaldi statue , towering over Rome in spectacular benediction from the highpoint of the Gianicolo . Around that statue in the green park where children play and lovers walk in twos and there is a glowing view of the whole city , in that park are the rows of marble busts of Garibaldi's fallen men , the ones who one day rushed out of the Porta San Pancrazio and , under fire all the way , up the long , straight narrow lane to take , then lose the high ground of the Villa Doria Pamphili . When they lost it , the French artillery moved in , and that was the end for Garibaldi that time , on 30 April 1849 . Once out of the gate they had charged straight up the narrow lane . We had walked it many times and shivered , figuring what a fish barrel it had been for the French . Now the park is filled with marble busts and all the streets in the immediate area have the full and proper names of the men who fell . We were at a party once and heard an idealistic young European call that awful charge glorious . Our companion was a huge , plain-spoken American sculptor who had been a sixteen-year-old rifleman all across France in 1944 . He said it was stupid butchery to order men to make a charge like that , no matter who gave the order and what for . `` Oh , it would be butchery all right '' , the European said . `` We would see it that way , but it was glorious then . It was the last time in history anybody could do something gloriously like that '' . I thought : Who is older now ? ? Old world and new world . The sculptor looked at him , bugeyed and amazed , angry . He had made an assault once with 180 men . It was a picked assault company . They went up against an SS unit of comparable size , over a little rise of ground , over an open field . Object -- a village crossroads . They made it , killed every last one of the Krauts , took the village on schedule . When it was over , eight of his company were still alive and all eight were wounded . The whole thing , from the moment when they jumped heavily off the trucks , spread out and moved into position just behind the cover of that slight rise of ground and then jumped off , took maybe between twenty and thirty minutes . The sculptor looked at him , let the color drain out of his face , grinned , and looked down into his drink , a bad Martini made with raw Italian gin . `` Bullshit '' , he said softly . `` Excuse me '' , the European said . `` I am not familiar with the expression '' . The apartment where we were talking that afternoon in March faced onto the street Garibaldi's men had charged up and along . Across the way from the apartment building is a ruined house , shot to hell that day in 1849 , and left that way as a memorial . There is a bronze wreath on the wall . Like everything else in Rome , ruins and monuments alike , that house is lived in . I have seen diapers strung across the ruined roof . The English lady really wanted to put a wreath on the Garibaldi monument on the 30th of April . She had her reasons for this . For one thing , there wasn't going to be any ceremony at all this year . There were a few reasons for that , too : Garibaldi had been taken up and exploited by the Communists nowadays . Therefore the government wanted no part of him . ( It is sort of as if our government should decide to disown Washington or Lincoln for the same reason . ) And then there were ecclesiastical matters , the matter of Garibaldi's anti-clericalism . There was a new Pope and the Vatican was making itself heard and felt these days . As it happens the English lady is a good Catholic herself , but of more liberal political persuasion . Nothing was going to be done this year to celebrate Garibaldi's bold and unsuccessful defense of Rome . All that the English lady wanted to do was to walk up to the monument and lay a wreath at its base . This would show that somebody , even a foreigner living in Rome , cared . And then there were other things . Some of the marble busts in the park are of young Englishmen who fought and died for Garibaldi . She also mentioned leaving a little bunch of flowers at the bust of Lauro Di Bosis . It is hard for me to know how I feel about Lauro Di Bosis . I suffer from mixed feelings . He was a well-to-do , handsome , and sensitive young poet . His bust shows an intense , mustached , fine-featured face . He flew over Rome one day during the early days of Mussolini and scattered leaflets over the city , denouncing the Fascists . He was never heard of again . He is thought either to have been killed by the Fascists as soon as he landed or to have killed himself by flying out to sea and crashing his plane . He was , thus , an early and spectacular victim . And there is something so wonderfully romantic about it all . He really didn't know how to fly . He had crashed on takeoff once before . Gossip had it ( for gossip is the soul of Rome ) that a famous American dancer of the time had paid for both the planes . It was absurd and dramatic . It is remembered and has been commemorated by a bust in a park and a square in the city which was renamed Piazzo Lauro Di Bosis after the war . Most Romans , even some postmen , know it by the old name . Faced with a gesture like Di Bosis' , I find usually that my sentiments are closer to those of my sculptor friend . The things that happened in police station basements were dirty , grubby , and most often anonymous . No poetry , no airplanes , no dancers . That is how the real routine of resistance goes on , and its strength is directly proportionate to the number of insignificant people who can let themselves be taken to pieces , piece by piece , without quitting . It is an ugly business and there are few , if any , wreaths for them . I keep thinking of a young woman I knew during the Occupation in Austria . She was from Prague . She had been picked up by the Russians , questioned in connection with some pamphlets , sentenced to life imprisonment for espionage . She escaped , crawled through the usual mine fields , under barbed wire , was shot at , swam a river , and we finally picked her up in Linz . She showed us what had happened to her . No airplanes , no Nathan Hale statements . Just no spot , not even a dimesize spot , on her whole body that wasn't bruised , bruise on top of bruise , from beatings . I understand very well about Lauro Di Bosis and how his action is symbolic . The trouble is that like many symbols it doesn't seem a very realistic one . The English lady wanted to pay tribute to Garibaldi and to Lauro Di Bosis , but she wasn't going to be here to do it . Were any of us interested enough in the idea to do it for her , by proxy so to speak ? ? There was a pretty thorough silence at that point . My spoon stirring coffee , banging against the side of the cup , sounded as loud as a bell . I thought : What the hell ? ? Why not ? ? I said I would do it for her . I had some reasons , too . I admire the English lady . I hate embarrassing silences and have been known to make a fool out of myself just to prevent one . I also had and have feelings about Garibaldi . Like every Southerner I can't escape the romantic tradition of brave defeats , forlorn lost causes . Though Garibaldi's fight was small shakes compared to Pickett's Charge -- which , like all Southerners , I view in almost Miltonic terms , fallen angels , etc. -- I associated the two . And to top it all I am often sentimental on purpose , trying to prove to myself that I am not afraid of sentiment . So much for all that . The English lady was pleased and enthusiastic . She gave me the names of some people who would surely help pay for the flowers and might even march up to the monument with me . The idea of the march pleased her . Maybe twenty , thirty , fifty . Maybe I could call Rimanelli at the magazine Rottosei where he worked .

his fingers in the plaintiffs' teeth, and assured them that by way of
10:15 For they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land

But this was enough to set all the English papers in a flame,

all your backbones, and bite your knives in two--that's all.  Take it
we thus glided in chase, the monster perpendicularly flitted his tail
the quickest arrangement of mind.  She must be collected and calm.
Thus grown.  Experience, next, to thee I owe, 
"I will tell her all that is necessary to what may
other: it was round all about, and his height was five cubits: and a
34:17 Shall even he that hateth right govern? and wilt thou condemn
with my sister."
at the main-mast.  "Mr. Starbuck, drive'em aft."
son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, the
13:1 Thus saith the LORD unto me, Go and get thee a linen girdle, and
be communicated to Mrs. Dashwood, gave additional pain
Thou, like the parti-colored world itself--like infinite, teeming,
 Are ready for rest,
1:47 And moreover the king's servants came to bless our lord king

they spied a band of men; and they cast the man into the sepulchre of
wrinkles as expressing rather such slight psychological abnormality--"
16:19 And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man,
them.
To manual work for each and all, to plough, hoe, dig,
is no God in all the earth, but in Israel: now therefore, I pray thee,
clover; and for some few fleeting moments, feel the cool dew of the
presumed wonderful instinct of the Sperm Whale, become notified of

that every fresh place would be interesting to me; but there is real beauty
go there, or that we did not see the house?  Is not it
The pirates, thieves, betrayers, murderers, slave-makers of the earth,

night watches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to
tempt the Lord thy God.
twice.
in so critical an emergency, which affection could suggest
there were moments of self-examination in which her conscience could
until thou have consumed them.
gone by the board, in the dread gale of God's wrath; therefore, we
Wee'l put on those shall praise your excellence,

"That is very true," replied her mother, "but of
had made.
But still I see the tenour of Man's woe 
To what they were before. My pretty Cosine,
within.  All dressed and dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into
And those same things that would have repelled most others, they were
on the ground, as though he heard them not.
at her earnestness and warmth; for had he not imagined it
defiance of it, the financial family were firm in their original purpose;
of thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace to thee, and no
refresh thyself, and I will give thee a reward.
"Being my friend's, I have no right to expose it in any degree
drank water.
window, and challenged me to mortal combat, and tied a tradesman
That lurid, partial act of war and peace--of old and new contending,
he continue to do so, he must conquer his sense of shame and lose his
wake, saith the LORD.
CHAPTER 17
63:19 We are thine: thou never barest rule over them; they were not

rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another.
stones, and hewed stones, to lay the foundation of the house.

and recovering her courage with the feeling of safety, soon added,

How first began this Heaven which we behold 

  Macb. I am settled, and bend vp
the illimitable Pine Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two
of his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he make

vintage.
such things had been.

mayest love the LORD thy God, and that thou mayest obey his voice, and
rolling up and turn over, as the knife passed it. She could see that it
Youth smiled celestial, and to every limb 
Which I respect not. I did send to you

Frenchman had a second whale alongside; and this second whale seemed
"If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when
please.  Let us see," said he, dividing the provisions upon the table;
he deserved the compliment of rational opposition.
Retiring, by his own doom alienated; 
Gentiles: but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself,
began to go off, she whisked her little scissors out of her apron
42:5 And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came:
and Emma was quite in charity with him.
skin encasing you.  You cannot put a shelf or chest of drawers in
told her it certainly would not, I am sure she depends
    on Syrian ground!
26:9 With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my
20:27 And the children of Israel were numbered, and were all present,



38:18 But if thou wilt not go forth to the king of Babylon's princes,
Our minds, and teach us to cast off this yoke? 

thy whoredom, and thine abominations on the hills in the fields. Woe
Come I to speake in Caesars Funerall.
Yea courb, and woe, for leaue to do him good

thoughts rose higher and higher with the rising roar of the
he do; because I go unto my Father.
10:33 Of the sons of Hashum; Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet,
3:1 Wherefore when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good to
at first a mere shadow in the haze, apparently bending and peering about.

Or dart my sight over the roofs of houses toward the sky,
Know ye now, Bulkington?  Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally
4:18 And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will
his father and his mother that begat him shall say unto him, Thou
49:19 Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordan
16:7 When a man's ways please the LORD, he maketh even his enemies to
and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master, what shall I do that I
the sunrising, from Baalgad under mount Hermon unto the entering into
line of cliffs stretching out to the east of the town, are what

would do him justice!  15:5 And it was so, that when any man came nigh



"How very pleasing and proper of him!" cried the good-hearted Mrs. John
but partly also an indescribable atmosphere almost described




   Bru. Good night good Brother
Alas you know not, I must tell you then:
    fathomless, stirring, preparing unprecedented waves and storms.
On Heaven's azure; and the torrid clime 
23:13 Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him
17:11 And it shall come to pass, when thy days be expired that thou
47:8 Therefore hear now this, thou that art given to pleasures, that
30:23 And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will
To have gone forth among other Gods, these men and women I love.
Mary, too, was growing calmer.
}  Darest Thou Now O Soul
15:14 And when he came unto Lehi, the Philistines shouted against him:
28:10 Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethren
consumed one of another.
After waiting another moment--
25:16 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 25:17 Vex the Midianites,
Mr. Case saw that Susan was not so simple as to be taken in by a few fair
all Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. Therefore king
said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in an house of cedar,
20:3 I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of my
19:35 And when the townclerk had appeased the people, he said, Ye men
seen a great quantity of this heath; and, as it was now only six o'clock
Amid these days of order, ease, prosperity,
Us both securer than thus warned thou seemest, 
couples often lie and chat over old times till nearly morning.  Thus,
"The little figs I like best are the fat, ripe, juicy ones that drop off


city of David, which is Zion.
"There is no persuading you to change your mind,

preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand;

cities also: for therefore am I sent.

you asham'd to shew, hee'l not shame to tell you what it
he have seen her happy with another--Such a noble mind!--


Wrath without end on Man, whom death must end? 
shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire
The wife of a whaling captain had provided the chapel with a handsome
Not unamazed, she thus in answer spake. 
mine hand to give it to your fathers.
26:31 Then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended because of
with psalteries, and with harps, according to the commandment of
will.

out of this place; He shall not return thither any more: 22:12 But he
made fat with fatness.
and arranged the glasses, and wrapped herself up, without opening
FINIS. THE TRAGEDIE OF MACBETH.
Before the Angel, and of him to ask 
Naturally, if not correctly, young Schwartz tore off the mysterious
26:22 The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into
will bring me forth to the light, and I shall behold his
that were numbered of them; who were fifty and three thousand and four
   Mar. No, it is strooke
Look at his face, look at his collar, look at his blessed boots!
their shield.
Ghost, 6:5 And have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the
game!--mind ye that; Queequeg dies game!--take ye good heed of that;
The FUTURE only holds thee and can hold thee.

  Ban. Too cruell, any where.
misgiving.  A sort of crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two

would like to associate with.  But now I can carry her
together, and till they roll the stone from the well's mouth; then we
"Heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps,

resources enough in herself to be qualified for a country life.
every epistle: so I write.

'Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.
some old-fashioned churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed
you can just see the corner where vessels turn into the river mouth;

7:24 O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from the body of


shall fail, none shall want her mate: for my mouth it hath commanded,
but merely as strong and handsome.  His hair also was curly,
I see that the word of my city is that word from of old,
3:2 And the LORD said unto Satan, The LORD rebuke thee, O Satan; even
the evenings shall spoil them, a leopard shall watch over their
about his own home in Ireland; and I think she wrote us word
belong.



Zadok begat Shallum, 6:13 And Shallum begat Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begat
Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (then saith he to the
2:11 Then Huram the king of Tyre answered in writing, which he sent to
give you assured peace in this place.
restraint beyond her own scanty rule of good-breeding. I cannot
or because he is attached to her, and can write a tolerable letter."
when the door of his private and official room was hammered
before the Grand Jury."  And with these cracked words he finally
10:22 And the standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set
For contemplation he and valour formed; 

from their knowing each other, which had taken strong possession

both in drawing and music than many might have done with so little
To feed & cloath thee. Why shold the poor be flatter'd?
consequence of a strong affection in a young and ardent mind.

very soon followed them into the drawing-room. To be sitting
We pledge, we dedicate to you.
arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, 'So you think

shall be cut off from among his people: 17:5 To the end that the

is your brother;) 9:19 If ye then have dealt truly and sincerely with
Anne did think on the question with perfect decision, and said as much
no weight with you, unless it were on the side of your wishes."
Whispers the o're-fraught heart, and bids it breake
according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy
the whole winter and spring, completely duped, fancying ourselves

8:20 And he cut the ram into pieces; and Moses burnt the head, and the
Due search and consultation will disclose. 
him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea: for he
those that are given to it.
was wrapped a long purple scarf that thrashed out in the wind as he walked.
Glamys thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be
to each other; but their faces moved with amazement, not unhappiness.
companion; but it was the trust between two men going to the
chambers, where are the vessels of the sanctuary, and the priests that
or some overbearing authority of his, been obliged to attend
with fervent heat?  3:13 Nevertheless we, according to his promise,
Hannah his wife; and the LORD remembered her.
will carry him into countries where God does not reign, but only the
know.'
him. And Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came, and spake
whisper, "that the charming Miss Marianne would shortly and inevitably
large old English garden, full of torches and bonfires, by the

139:15 My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret,


The Dying Whale.
instant when the Virgin is compared to a goddess of Mesopotamia.
vouches for her disinterestedness; every thing in his favour,--
CHATTERER THE RED SQUIRREL JUMPS FOR HIS LIFE
The car crawled about a hundred yards farther, and then they were
"I tell you once and for all," cried Mr. Cumberland Vane, rapping
Here, sailor! here, ship! take aboard the most perfect pilot,
the stones of the brooks.

His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there is little of it,
statistically stated.
Stay not to answer me, but get thee gone.
(America! I do not vaunt my love for you,
fall; and whilst he stooped to pick it up, Archer gave the signal.  The

his Fines, his double Vouchers, his Recoueries:
arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with the
days fly so fast.  A week to-morrow!--And I have hardly begun to
feel my topmost greatness lies in my topmost grief.  Ho, ho! from all
and answered "that very likely those words might be signs of the same
Don't you really believe in the family story at all?"
Talb.  O yes, yes, we take it; go on.
Mr. Elton looked up to him.
Zidonians, quiet and secure; and there was no magistrate in the land,
Old M.  But last night I slept here in town, please your worship, at the

Philistines, and all Geshuri, 13:3 From Sihor, which is before Egypt,
}  As Adam Early in the Morning
as clever as you can guess the sort of thing that would begin
hated not in time past; 19:5 As when a man goeth into the wood with
111:2 The works of the LORD are great, sought out of all them that
come to the end: then stop.'
41:1 Afterward he brought me to the temple, and measured the posts,
royal instances even to idiot imbecility they have imparted potency.
Pick'd sparingly without noise by thee old ocean, chosen by thee,
8:15 Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing under
evince his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place
Tiger, shut up in a strong iron cage. The villagers had caught him and
17:9 And when they had taken security of Jason, and of the other, they
about.

Ominous conjecture on the whole success; 
He didn't stop to state that his justification was self-defence.

also among the prophets?  10:13 And when he had made an end of
uncommonly like----"
Jericho, eastward.

and voice as to be just beginning an inquiry of Thomas,
undiscernible form, seems to him the embodiment of those elusive
5:7 For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: yet peradventure
conversation. 'Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?' The Mouse did not
length recollected that though she had embroidered a tulip, and painted a
13:19 And it came to pass, that when the gates of Jerusalem began to

Underneath all, individuals,
"Come along, then," said Hardy, taking him by the arm in an affectionate
CHAPTER XIV
To whom the Sovran Presence thus replied. 
grace.
32:10 Yea, I will make many people amazed at thee, and their kings
spoken with such serious warmth!  She could imagine what Louisa was feeling.
Of Heaven, and from eteranl splendours flung 
congregation of the LORD for ever: 23:4 Because they met you not with
Mr Elliot was ushered into the room.
27:22 And now I exhort you to be of good cheer: for there shall be no
holiness in the fear of God.
cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and nourished him for her

the innermost parts of the belly.
of saying something, she asked if he had been in London
irritated by ceaseless repetitions of Miss Hawkins's happiness,
among those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven


Frenchman's boats, then, were engaged in towing the ship one way,

40:18 And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation
subjection for servants and for handmaids.
'Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter. 'He won't stand beating.


inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 3:4 And the two
described as belonging to the Count de Flora's villa, than he longed to
I wish--I heartily wish it had never been.  But I have injured
was yet in their mouths,
10:28 And that day Joshua took Makkedah, and smote it with the edge of
4:21 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 4:22 Take also the sum of
disgust.
endeth, the joy of the harp ceaseth.


than butlers usually appear when detected in a lie, that Mrs. Pomfret
Make forth, the Generals would haue some words
69:33 For the LORD heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners.
Jerusalem.
You are resolved to think him blameable, because he took
she had reserved after she was sufficed.
deficient in scruples, fell back upon a more popular form of wit.
"Come, then," said the lady, laughing, "if that is the case, I think I
Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the river Arnon, even Gilead and
rib and keel was solid Ahab.
"_His_ sufferings," replied Emma dryly, "do not appear to have done
And saith unto them, Go your way into the village over against you:
     acknowledgments.  I am much concerned to find there
6:1 And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the

and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I

couldn't catch the little Red Hen, because she was too wise for him.
at that moment be forgiven for not being Willoughby;
was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, 'Oh my ears
be graffed in.
Tastes, not well joined, inelegant, but bring 

"Lower away," he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat--a spare
near him--"Stand by to lower!"

before me.
9:13 And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, which
and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the
received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept it.
taken away: and who shall declare his generation? for his life is
     At the same moment, and long before the vibration had touched
Jem smiled.  "Oh, as to that," said he, "you are mistaken, for I have at

I see brains and lips closed, tympans and temples unstruck,
me to lie abed such an unendurable length of time.  But she was the
The Chamberlain asked the maid to take him to the Nightingale's home,
"I'll do that for you," said the tailor.
hindmost of thee, even all that were feeble behind thee, when thou
"No, sir," said Brian; "I did not know it, and I did not bring that note
13:21 It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures
been used so long to uncomfortable adventures that comfortable
will not slumber.
think about building.  These parlors are both too small
I left him my great Bible and my watch, in my will; for I never was more
Haman. Then the king said, Hang him thereon.
While you performe your Antique round:
To take your lovers on the road with you, for all that you leave
permitted to begin again, they were obliged to thank Mrs. Weston,
136:3 O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy endureth for

the poor.
in his expansive, radiantly explanatory style.
19:16 LORD, bow down thine ear, and hear: open, LORD, thine eyes, and
went for nothing at all.  Their being her relations too
   Macb. To know my deed,
he might be supposed no less contented with his lot,
The law of God exact he shall fulfil 
you to the front of the revolutionary war, where you will be one
remember where you are.  Silence! silence!  Come forward, sir, and let me



          form by the program that displays the eBook (as is
and was buried in the sepulchre of his father.

    restrain'd by decorum,
5:8 They sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines
"very thoroughly."
don't spoil the boy."

stealing away through the winding shrubberies, now just
to be forgotten!--My dear Mr. E., he must have left a message for you,
evening-parties were made for him and his lady; and invitations
to help a foreign thief by telling him to fumble in the wrong drawer.
Genesis, the angels indeed consorted with the daughters of men, the
forecastles of American whalers.  Some of them are done with much
slow and gentle when you glanced over it, proved to be highly
31:25 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 31:26 Take the sum of the

place, because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the
stood sword in hand. The seconds stood on each side of the line
The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews; but cut
22:5 He sent messengers therefore unto Balaam the son of Beor to
commanded unto the king's lieutenants, and to the governors that were
Harriet was farther unfortunate in the tone of her companions at

falling like a sword.  "And you have kept close to something the

which rendered him perfectly interesting in the eyes of all the ladies.
20:15 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest
Give me a field where the unmow'd grass grows,
LITTLE JACK ROLLAROUND



"Yes, here I am, my good friend; and here I have been so long,
suburbs thereof for our cattle.
Or the Hare, the Lyon:
prophet.
thine eye evil, because I am good?  20:16 So the last shall be first,
36:6 And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed
and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth, 7:9 There went in two
  All. A deed without a name
"Little Half-Chick," said the Wind, "you are just in time to help me; if
19:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thick
Judah dwelt at Kirjatharba, and in the villages thereof, and at Dibon,
"that is the only security for its freshness; and nothing could be
But I am very glad to find it was only my own fancy,
4:20 For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.
frantic morbidness he at last came to identify with him, not only all
towards herself, but that was impossible, and she was
perfectly idiotic!' And she opened the door and went in.

him much harm.  Well, and how did Mr. Churchill take it?"
to heave.
"Yes, yes, pray pass _me_," added her husband, with a sort of
followed thee.
her purifying threescore and six days.

"What sort of looking man is Mr. Martin?"
interesting family.  Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan
That scaled by steps of gold to Heaven-gate, 
palace: 4:5 I saw a dream which made me afraid, and the thoughts upon
over against Cnidus, the wind not suffering us, we sailed under Crete,
but I cannot stay to hear it."
But all corrupt; both mind and will depraved 


with wonders: 26:9 And he hath brought us into this place, and hath

And wandering vanity, when least was safe, 

carriage, it was impossible to have any other companion.

sounding.
5:31 Then shall the man be guiltless from iniquity, and this woman
say among the nations, The LORD reigneth.
his jokes are always so big and simple that one has never thought
of the passage, in order to point out to Captain Cutler a flower-shop
Showt.
24:9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his
These so, these irretrievable.
them, and largely contribute to their might; so that in the tail the
when the whole business was taken out of his hands he fell back
My science-friend, my noblest woman-friend,
Marianne said no more, but looked exceedingly hurt.
26:23 Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with

they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found in

(O Mother--O Sisters dear!
the sickly skin, the posture of reclining weakness,
eateth it: this is vanity, and it is an evil disease.

"Didn't say dat t'all," said Fleece, again in the sulks.
would be a much better plan; better time of year; better weather;
scientific dash at the mass, and with a few sidelong, desperate,
executing that which is right in mine eyes, and hast done unto the
Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty
gestures, "why does teething hurt?  Why do growing pains hurt?  Why
will be the third.  Aye, men, he'll rise once more,--but only to
22:28 Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto
heresies, 5:21 Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such
vale for abundance.
established.
He would ignore all hints, but he would die rather than

Each comes in state with his train, hangman, priest, tax-gatherer,
how should they know how to chop logic like men?"
tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe
Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah, 36:30 Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke
The shape of the roof of the home of the happy young man and
"Now you do that," said he.
expressing all the affection, gratitude, and respect which was
"Had he been only in a violent fever, you would not
devils might have captured heaven, but they had not yet captured

4:10 And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that thou
To Paradise first tending; when, behold! 
2:11 The LORD will be terrible unto them: for he will famish all the

Nativities, climates, the grass of the great pastoral Plains,
built goodly houses, and dwelt therein; 8:13 And when thy herds and

she had little hope of Mr. Knightley, none of Mr. Weston.
furrows where it grew.
have been to South End.  South End is an unhealthy place.
"But, Maurice, where is your own tulip?" said Mr. Oakly; "I thought,
agreeable, provided they dress smart and behave civil.
unto the LORD.
Thy wish exactly to thy heart's desire. 

finished one story, and was going to commence another.  He fixed his eyes


The arch-chemick sun, so far from us remote, 
chief captain, May I speak unto thee? Who said, Canst thou speak

waters; his straight and single lofty jet rising like a tall
1:14 Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle, shall remain in
shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty's
and said unto him, Come, and I will shew thee the man whom thou
generation to generation: 4:35 And all the inhabitants of the earth
bunch of keys at his side.  Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence
a hurry, merely to give us notice--it tells us that they are all
even a Robert Martin would have been sufficient; but nothing else,
known, or rather, all that could be told about them.  The name of
   Hor. It was, as I haue seene it in his life,
Over the tree-tops I float thee a song,
47:25 And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace in
Postscript.
With what compulsion and laborious flight 
Doth not he see my ways, and count all my steps?  31:5 If I have
be no more consumed with hunger in the land, neither bear the shame of
7:51 So was ended all the work that king Solomon made for the house of
bewilderingly on every side, a monstrosity in that starless
read the book, neither to look thereon.
17:16 They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred and
serve: I have given your priest's office unto you as a service of


or tend at all to make a girl adapt herself rationally to the varieties
60:5 That thy beloved may be delivered; save with thy right hand, and
founded only on a something or a nothing between Mr. Willoughby
26:31 And I will make your cities waste, and bring your sanctuaries

Altered her cheek.  On whom the Angel Hail 
18:14 And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from
Bear on your wings and in your notes his praise. 
Show me that you have as much perseverance as you have candour, and I
To teach the average man the glory of his daily walk and trade,
meadow: 41:19 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor

Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to
We mean to hold what anciently we claim 
prosperity shall yet be spread abroad; and the LORD shall yet comfort
went into the market with his grapes and figs, he found that he was not

party spirit revived with the strength he had got from his breakfast,
her offspring were viewed therefore by Lady Middleton

26:27 And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye
Mrs. Dashwood and Elinor then followed, and the others
"In heaven's name, man," cried Stubb, "are you ramming home a
majestic in aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce;
*Lobe.
A virgin is his mother, but his sire 

7:18 Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning: let us

17:14 And these are the numbers of them according to the house of


know what he doeth?  7:52 They answered and said unto him, Art thou
his place.
9:25 For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and
dead could adequately tell.  So that--let us say it again--no dying
man, set thy face against mount Seir, and prophesy against it, 35:3
going out with you; but he says he won't detain them more than half a
and of seeing him with Jane, would yield its proportion of pleasure.
my staff upon the face of the child.
You shall listen to all sides and filter them from your self.
It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise
17:11 And Manasseh had in Issachar and in Asher Bethshean and her

perhaps, when they came into contact again, in seeing Anne restored


it was only with the view imputed to him by his brother.
the Leviathan--to an ant or a flea--such portly terms might justly be

It seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon
Nor only launch thy subtle dazzle and thy strength for these,
Placed Heaven from Earth so far, that earthly sight, 
his observations, he must--yes, he certainly must, as a friend--
"But you cannot think anything honourable, or the contrary," observed De
So strongly did Cecilia feel this truth, that she even delayed making any

matter.
between the two extremes of hard, meagre designs of Greek heads
all to his uncle, throw himself on his kindness, and, in short,
Montague's charming Miss Marianne into her apartment to see Pretty Poll,
to say, that she desires to know what you are all thinking of?"

burnt among them, and consumed them that were in the uttermost parts
and they happened to be so doatingly fond of children

The Fox lifted the big, heavy bag up till it was over the open kettle,
one must be who takes a very lively interest in all the

disappeared from view, as if diving under the keel.  "Cut, cut!" was

Harps ever tuned, that glittering by their side 

branches; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of
would hum over his old rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the

"but the sea will have its way.  Stubb, for one, can't fight it.  You
I teach straying from me, yet who can stray from me?

Elinor looked at him with greater astonishment than ever.
whether it was her turn or not. So she went in search of her hedgehog.
"On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which
"`Smallridge!'--What does this mean?  What is all this?"

frighten me from giving any opinion on the subject
for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth.
up his brother's house.
I feel the hot moisture yet that he left me.

7:3 And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thine heart;
6:12 And the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it; it shall not
Had cast him out from Heaven, with all his host 
years.
them at the altar, you would suppose they were going to
Have ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was an

themselves ill in their doings.

the elegance of the paper, the hand-writing altogether,
1:20 And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses said: and he expelled
the king.

Before the eyes of both our Armies heere
Elinor would not oppose his opinion, because,
of society above him.  I was very much pleased with all that he said.
could feel; and given Mr Shepherd, in his explicit account of himself,
robe and a diadem.
Of Hamlets transformation: so I call it,
like brothers and shouting like men delivered.  From the Cross
him, the Syme who escaped would be a Syme freed from all obligation
33:3 And they departed from Rameses in the first month, on the
whole thing is wonderfully good and true.  The half-emptied line-tub
15:25 And if a woman have an issue of her blood many days out of the
turn aside, and serve other gods, and worship them; 11:17 And then the
well pleased: I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall shew
green garden table, as if someone had just had tea there.
endureth for ever.

23:6 Eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither

supper at the cottage door, a great pig came up, and put his nose into
escape from him and leave him miles behind. For Syme thirsted first

The treachery, or the folly, of my cousin's maid betrayed us.
three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and
gone mad, grown into unrecognizable shapes, forgetful of their




When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native woodlands in
Our Armes in strength of malice, and our Hearts

28:12 And landing at Syracuse, we tarried there three days.
made her resolve on remaining at Norland no longer than
state of mind.  The sympathy and good-will excited towards Captain Benwick
for each approached the door at the upper end with equal coolness


Mr. Turnbull."
Wrotham, in Norfolk, given by Ralph de Toni to the Abbey of Bec, and was
year of jubile: and in the jubile it shall go out, and he shall return
42:16 After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his
Shalt soar toward the fulfilment of the future, the spirit of the
Stubb's confident way of accounting for their appearance, they were
And judgement from above: him old and young 
linked with the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously
passed to the cook, like a favourite minister, proud to display the
sons of Jokshan; Sheba, and Dedan.
DARKENS--THE WIND RISES.)
against his good nature.  I'm sure, from the bottom of my heart, I'm
into two bands; 32:8 And said, If Esau come to the one company, and
To sorrow abandoned, but worse felt within; 
them, and I after them, and the half of the people upon the wall, from
which seemed to you so painfully lacking in interest.  If the convict
45:7 And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the
always together.  We were principally in town, living in very good style.
     Flambeau turned abruptly at an exclamation behind him.
and experience, that Captain Wentworth was not in love with either.

of a curate. "Don't you see it's not necessary? Don't you see that

Have we not darken'd and dazed ourselves with books long enough?
whale-ships, and both exact and reliable men.  The original matter
shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall
Little did Mr. Willoughby imagine, I suppose, when his
"Please your honour, sir," said he to Mr. Somerville, "I expected, since
bowels in the Lord.
of the Secretary. He was one of those men who are conscientious
21:19 Amon was twenty and two years old when he began to reign, and he
2:14 Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them before the
had been prepared for his old friend, to while away the morning;
other tribes of his genus.

amid crags like peaks loaded with woods like orchards, that dragged
40:3 The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the
harlot in this place.
refuse, as it is some hours before supper."
come again the seventh day, and shall look: and, behold, if the plague
Not traditions, not the outer authorities are the judges,


Mr. Knightley, in fact, was one of the few people who could see
I think I could stop here myself and do miracles,
into his pockets in his hurry.  "Oh, my new ball!" cried he, as he ran
39:2 And in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, the
curiosity touching this Leviathan.
4:12 When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou
and the Egyptians, and brought the sea upon them, and covered them;
78:18 And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their
land of Egypt I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build
35:1 And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel
the people that were with Joab battered the wall, to throw it down.
within ourselves, so far within us, that it remains intact though all
What might be toward, that this sweaty hast
I skirt sierras, my palms cover continents,


11:4 And the seventh year Jehoiada sent and fetched the rulers over
father.


disciples suffered him not.
just what will happen, I have no doubt, some time or other;
     body that has a living to bestow, am very sure you
_What_ she was, must be uncertain; but _who_ she was, might be found out;

13:59 This is the law of the plague of leprosy in a garment of woollen
   Hor. 'Twere to consider: to curiously to consider so
and spirits; I cannot bear them if they are tame and quiet."


41:4 I said, LORD, be merciful unto me: heal my soul; for I have
cruel troubleth his own flesh.


  Wife. Why I can buy me twenty at any Market
bodies of the two doctors whom Professor Lucifer had carried with
a procession,' thought she, 'if people had all to lie down upon their
Thy bearded throat and high-borne forehead to the gutter;
masters much gain by soothsaying: 16:17 The same followed Paul and us,
sister's health were more secure, before she appointed it.
children all the year round, while Sir John's independent
  King. What bloody man is that? he can report,

to mee, then a foule and pestilent congregation of vapours.
On a bank lounged the trapper, he was drest mostly in skins, his luxuriant

and the rich sit in low place.
things that you will want to say to us.  I know all about the
Absalom.
Tweakes me by'th' Nose? giues me the Lye i'th' Throate,
2:3 And the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to
Sure pledge of day, that crownest the smiling morn 


She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, 'Which way? Which
thee, O LORD my God, be on me, and on my father's house; but not on
2:10 When Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the
41:13 So he measured the house, an hundred cubits long; and the
"There's a new law now, and the asylum powers are greatly

elephant's trunk.  This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action of
down, and taught the people out of the ship.
"Upon my word I never heard of it till this moment."

learned men.  And where is Cadiz, shipmates?  Cadiz is in Spain; as
     "Except one," she repeated.
up his eyes and looked, and, behold, there stood a man over against

than what was comprised in three or four very broad stares;
anything that promised to yield safety, comfort, and consolation to

so lucky. We were four against One."
32:4 So there was gathered much people together, who stopped all the
Lord GOD.
out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness,
his body are tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating a
I do not advise you to give way to it, Harriet.  I do not by any
Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar, have I
as dear to her as in former days, that in spite of the many,
and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.


thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite;
and will cut him off, and all that go a whoring after him, to commit
the officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect,
     He had taken out of his pocket a small, stout, leather-bound volume,
forth and bud, that it may give seed to the sower, and bread to the

you, and chased you, as bees do, and destroyed you in Seir, even unto

    sufficient rivers,
1:1 The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning
  King. Loue? His affections do not that way tend,


sideways impelled by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously
What hurrying human tides, or day or night!

The Harlots Cheeke beautied with plaist'ring Art
"Mene, Mene, Tekel Upharsin" has been woven into the shrouds and the
it would be in her power to send an intelligible sentence
seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, and
48:12 And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed
of Ahab: for the daughter of Ahab was his wife: and he did evil in the
I do not doubt that the orbs and the systems of orbs play their
seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.

1:14 And ye answered me, and said, The thing which thou hast spoken is
our house which is from heaven: 5:3 If so be that being clothed we
smote thee is broken: for out of the serpent's root shall come forth a

land, to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be
     "Society's brightest widower is once more on the Freak Dinner stunt.
brethren that hated you, that cast you out for my name's sake, said,
Then everybody began to laugh.
7:14 Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief,
I'm sure, to keep out the cold and drink success to the Latin champion."
"For me, perhaps!" said the ingenuous Louisa.
My poor Charles, who had the finest, most generous spirit in the world,

Which here, though plenteous, all too little seems 
4:8 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 4:9 The hands
would appear valuable in her eyes.  As to any thing superior for you,
Mr. B. (reads).  "Business of importance to communicate--"  Hum! what can
9:19 He answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how long


5:25 Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way
I too felt the curious abrupt questionings stir within me,
half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thing
11:9 And they that went before, and they that followed, cried, saying,
In general , religious interest seems to exist in all parts of the metropolis ; ; congregational membership , however , is another thing . A congregation survives only if it can sustain a socially homogeneous membership ; ; that is , when it can preserve economic integration . Religious faith can be considered a necessary condition of membership in a congregation , since the decision to join a worshiping group requires some motive force , but faith is not a sufficient condition for joining ; ; the presence of other members of similar social and economic level is the sufficient condition . The breakdown of social homogeneity in inner city areas and the spread of inner city blight account for the decline of central city churches . Central cities reveal two adverse features for the major denominations : ( 1 ) central cities tend to be areas of residence for lower social classes ; ; ( 2 ) central cities tend to be more heterogeneous in social composition . The central city areas , in other words , exhibit the two characteristics which violate the life principle of congregations of the major denominations : they have too few middle-class people ; ; they mix middle-class people with lower-class residents . Central city areas have become progressively poorer locales for the major denominations since the exodus of middle-class people from most central cities . With few exceptions , the major denominations are rapidly losing their hold on the central city . The key to Protestant development , therefore , is economic integration of the nucleus of the congregation . Members of higher and lower social status often cluster around this nucleus , so that Protestant figures on social class give the impression of spread over all social classes ; ; but this is deceptive , for the core of membership is concentrated in a single social and economic stratum . The congregation perishes when it is no longer possible to replenish that core from the neighborhood ; ; moreover , residential mobility is so high in metropolitan areas that churches have to recruit constantly in their core stratum in order to survive ; ; they can lose higher- and lower-status members from the church without collapsing , but they need adequate recruits for the core stratum in order to preserve economic integration . The congregation is first and foremost an economic peer group ; ; it is secondarily a believing and worshiping fellowship . If it were primarily a believing fellowship , it would recruit believers from all social and economic ranks , something which most congregations of the New Protestantism ( with a few notable exceptions ) have not been able to do . They survive only when they can recruit social and economic peers . The vulnerability of Protestant congregations to social differences has often been attributed to the `` folksy spirit '' of Protestant religious life ; ; in fact , a contrast is often drawn in this regard with the `` impersonal '' Roman Catholic parish . We have seen that the folksy spirit is confined to economic peers ; ; consequently , the vulnerability to social difference should not be attributed to the stress on personal community in Protestant congregations ; ; actually , there is little evidence of such personal community in Protestant congregations , as we shall see in another connection . The vulnerability of Protestantism to social differences stems from the peculiar role of the new religious style in middle-class life , where the congregation is a vehicle of social and economic group identity and must conform , therefore , to the principle of economic integration . This fact is evident in the recruitment of new members . Mission as co-optation The rule of economic integration in congregational life can be seen in the missionary outreach of the major denominations . There is much talk in theological circles about the `` Church as Mission '' and the `` Church's Mission '' ; ; theologians have been stressing the fact that the Church does not exist for its own sake but as a testimony in the world for the healing of the world . A crucial question , therefore , is what evangelism and mission actually mean in metropolitan Protestantism . If economic integration really shapes congregational life , then evangelism should be a process of extending economic integration . The task of a congregation would be defined , according to economic integration , as the work of co-opting individuals and families of similar social and economic position to replenish the nuclear core of the congregation . ( Co-optation means to choose by joint action in order to fill a vacancy ; ; it can also mean the assimilation of centers of power from an environment in order to strengthen an organization . ) In a mobile society , congregational health depends on a constant process of recruitment ; ; this recruitment , however , must follow the pattern of economic integration or it will disrupt the congregation ; ; therefore , the recruitment or missionary outreach of the congregation will be co-optation rather than proclamation -- like elements will have to be assimilated . Evangelism and congregational outreach have not been carefully studied in the churches ; ; one study in Pittsburgh , however , has illuminated the situation . In a sample of new members of Pittsburgh churches , almost 60 per cent were recruited by initial `` contacts with friendly members '' . If we add to these contacts with friendly members the `` contacts with an organization of the church '' ( 11.2 per cent of the cases ) , then a substantial two thirds of all recruitment is through friendly contact . On the surface , this seems a sound approach to Christian mission : members of the congregation show by their friendly attitudes that they care for new people ; ; the new people respond in kind by joining the church . Missionary outreach by friendly contact looks somewhat different when one reflects on what is known about friendly contact in metropolitan neighborhoods ; ; the majority of such contacts are with people of similar social and economic position ; ; association by level of achievement is the dominant principle of informal relations . This means that the antennae of the congregation are extended into the community , picking up the wave lengths of those who will fit into the social and economic level of the congregation ; ; the mission of the church is actually a process of informal co-optation ; ; the lay ministry is a means to recruit like-minded people who will strengthen the social class nucleus of the congregation . Churches can be strengthened through this process of co-optation so long as the environs of the church provide a sufficient pool of people who can fit the pattern of economic integration ; ; once the pool of recruits diminishes , the congregation is helpless -- friendly contacts no longer keep it going . The transmutation of mission to co-optation is further indicated by the insignificance of educational activities , worship , preaching , and publicity in reaching new members . The proclamation of the churches is almost totally confined to pastoral contacts by the clergy ( 17.3 per cent of new members ) and friendly contacts by members ( over two thirds if organizational activities are included ) . Publicity accounted for 1.1 per cent of the initial contacts with new members . In general , friendly contact with a member followed by contact with a clergyman will account for a major share of recruitment by the churches , making it quite evident that the extension of economic integration through co-optation is the principal form of mission in the contemporary church ; ; economic integration and co-optation are the two methods by which Protestants associate with and recruit from the neighborhood . The inner life of congregations will prosper so long as like-minded people of similar social and economic level can fraternize together ; ; the outer life of congregations -- the suitability of the environment to their survival -- will be propitious so long as the people in the area are of the same social and economic level as the membership . Economic integration ceases when the social and economic statuses in an area become too mixed or conflict with the status of the congregation . In a rapidly changing society congregations will run into difficulties repeatedly , since such nice balances of economic integration are hard to sustain in the metropolis for more than a single generation . The fact that metropolitan churches of the major denominations have moved approximately every generation for the last hundred years becomes somewhat more intelligible in the light of this struggle to maintain economic balance . The expense of this type of organization in religious life , when one recalls the number of city churches which deteriorated beyond repair before being abandoned , raises fundamental questions about the principle of Protestant survival in a mobile society ; ; nonetheless , the prevalence of economic integration in congregations illumines the nature of the Protestant development . It was observed in the introductory chapter that metropolitan life had split into two trends -- expanding interdependence on an impersonal basis and growing exclusiveness in local communal groupings . These trends seem to be working at cross-purposes in the metropolis . Residential associations struggle to insulate themselves against intrusions . The motifs of impersonal interdependence and insulation of residential communities have polarized ; ; the schism between central city and suburb , Negro and White , blue collar and white collar can be viewed as symptomatic of this deeper polarization of trends in the metropolis . It now becomes evident that the denominational church is intimately involved with the economy of middle-class culture , for it serves to crystallize the social class identity of middle-class residential groupings . The accelerated pace of metropolitan changes has accentuated the drive to conformity in congregations of the major denominations . This conformity represents a desperate attempt to stabilize a hopelessly unstable environment . More than creatures of metropolitan forces , the churches have taken the lead in counteracting the interdependence of metropolitan life , crystallizing and perpetuating the stratification of peoples , giving form to the struggle for social homogeneity in a world of heterogeneous peoples . Since American life is committed above all to productivity and a higher standard of economic life , the countervailing forces of residential and religious exclusiveness have fought a desperate , rearguard action against the expanding interdependence of the metropolis . Consumer communities have suffered at the hands of the productive interests . Negroes , Puerto Ricans , and rural newcomers are slowly making their way into the cities . Soon they will fight their way into the lower middle-class suburbs , and the churches will experience the same decay and rebuilding cycle which has characterized their history for a century . The identification of the basic unit of religious organization -- the parish or congregation -- with a residential area is self-defeating in a modern metropolis , for it simply means the closing of an iron trap on the outreach of the Christian fellowship and the transmutation of mission to co-optation . Mission to the metropolis contradicts survival of the congregation in the residential community , because the middle classes are fighting metropolitan interdependence with residential exclusion . This interpretation of the role of residence in the economy of middle-class culture could lead to various projections for the churches . It could be argued that any fellowship which centers in residential neighborhoods is doomed to become an expression of the panic for stable identity among the middle classes . It could be argued that only such neighborhoods can sustain religious activity , since worship presupposes some local stabilities . Whatever projection one makes , the striking fact about congregational and parochial life is the extent to which it is a vehicle of the social identity of middle-class people . Attention will be given in the next chapter to the style of association in the denominational churches ; ; this style is characteristically an expression of the communal style of the middle classes . The keynotes of this style are activism and emphasis on achievements in gaining self-esteem . These values give direction to the life of the middle-class man or woman , dictating the methods of child rearing , determining the pattern of community participation , setting the style for the psychiatric treatment of middle-class illness , and informing the congregational life of the major denominations . `` Fellowship by likeness '' and `` mission by friendly contact '' form the iron cage of denominational religion . Its contents are another matter , for they reveal the kinds of interests pursued by the congregation . What goes on in the cage will occupy our attention under the rubric of the organization church . An understanding of the new role of residential association in an industrial society serves to illuminate the forces which have fashioned the iron cage of conformity which imprisons the churches in their suburban captivity . The perplexing question still remains as to why the middle classes turn to the churches as a vehicle of social identity when their clubs and charities should fill the same need .
    beautiful curious liquid,
Thy full Petition at the hand of Brutus.
I question whether Marianne NOW, will marry a man worth
whether I exaggerate about the mariners of Cornwall.  This place belongs
that he was sorry for the disappointment of the others, and with
all about it herself to-morrow: her first partner was Mr. Elton,
21:11 They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their
 Under a cruel eye outworn,

13:5 (And the LORD gave Israel a saviour, so that they went out from

can die," and as the word went through his head, he heard a faint
and by some honest white mariners supposed to be the paid spies and
out into all that country round about, and brought unto him all that
plane there in the bar--wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug enough."

quite as much as her words, for something more than ordinary.
Prepare to lodge their Companies to night
5:4 Then take of them again, and cast them into the midst of the fire,
1:26 But me, even me thy servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah
and the chief of Israel numbered, after their families, and after the
Equal in strength, and rather than be less 
be a great drawback.  Why does not he try Bath?--Indeed he should.

50:3 I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their
burn incense unto Baal, and walk after other gods whom ye know not;
comfort them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow.
7:6 And Esther said, The adversary and enemy is this wicked Haman.
me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath.
Nations ten thousand years before these States, and many times ten
Thank Heaven! I cannot be forced into genius and eloquence."
He ended, and his words their drooping cheer 
10:46 For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify God. Then
Enter Horatio, Barnardo, and Marcellus.
"What did that good lady want with you?" cried William; but, looking up
turned into the drought of summer. Selah.
}  A Prairie Sunset
II.
ways.
boy meantime.
many years ago for a ball-room, and while the neighbourhood had been
so much could be given to a young person like Jane."
2:10 Ishbosheth Saul's son was forty years old when he began to reign
sweetmeat-puffs and the tarts here to the company in the best parlour?"
spoiler ceaseth, the oppressors are consumed out of the land.
for advice, and they are very much respected. That is the way with
The effects, which thy original crime hath wrought 
    flies swiftly over the note-book, the sign-painter is lettering
the enormous simplicity of his success, and then walked across
in town as in the country, since his acquaintance must
she found.  "He had just looked into the dining-room, and as he

  Ham. I sir, to be honest as this world goes, is to bee

spirits."
time: and at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that
22:35 And the battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in
offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals to a
ark.

it so that it could be rolled about, and there was nothing in the world
came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above


    operas, lecturers, preachers,
23:1 Now these be the last words of David. David the son of Jesse
ye the man that sent you to me, 34:24 Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I
    the Constitution,

5:10 There was nothing in the ark save the two tables which Moses put

children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, 2:52 The children of
you another instance of her liberality:--The other day,
"Yes, but I don't promise you," said she, "to give you half a crown, to-
first came to his senses.  "Swing the bucket this way!" and putting
He had wanted very much to go abroad--had been very eager indeed
of all.  Every part of it brought pain and humiliation, of some sort
4:7 For what nation is there so great, who hath God so nigh unto them,
March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting
across the room in snaky twists, went straight up as if from a
we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have
     6
no consequence now;  but you'll remember, that if his lordship has the
and rent it in twelve pieces: 11:31 And he said to Jeroboam, Take thee
foolish as our engagement was, foolish as it has since
Uppermost was the impression, that whatever swift, rushing thing I

there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected
own soul, entice thee secretly, saying, Let us go and serve other
that house.  There must be ample room in it for every real comfort.
all afloat, all employed in his stock, and so forth; and though,
panama hat had lost all his ease of a landed proprietor and had
This day to be our guest.  But go with speed, 
my Businesse
and
9:8 And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 9:9 And
that's certain; and here's to your good health, Mr. Grant--you and yours,
Exempt from death; to show thee what reward 
land; so that when he comes to it at last, it smells like another
Long after to blest Mary, second Eve. 
because thou hast shed much blood upon the earth in my sight.



bring forth him that had cursed out of the camp, and stone him with
What whirls of evil, bliss and sorrow, stem thee!

Jabbok, and unto Jordan: now therefore restore those lands again

daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of the
sudden turn of death, that mortals realize the silent, subtle,
28:7 There is a path which no fowl knoweth, and which the vulture's

Daniel blessed the God of heaven.
an empty seat at the breakfast-table and sat down. The men greeted
International donations are accepted, but we don't know ANYTHING about
unto the greatest, by the sword and by the famine: and they shall be
   Laer. And so haue I a Noble Father lost,
I know the good King & Queene haue sent for you

principles fixed;--and his disposition, I am well convinced,
graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf: and they said, These
alive.
to sail; and a hundred other shadowy things.
as little distinction as possible between his bows to the two cousins.
If counsels different, or danger shunned 
79:4 We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision
iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffick; therefore will I bring

35:4 Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not:
Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life
the attachment, as, with all her goodwill in the cause, Emma could feel

in some momentary apprehensions of its being impossible to last.
your censure may be praise, for they are not more undiscerning,
"The same," said the Improvisatore; "the same, though in a better dress,
DAYS"; and she wished that she could sleep again, and think it all a
Strength undiminished, or eternal being 
Ducates a peece, for his picture in Little. There is something
of Geshur. And David mourned for his son every day.
sense of shame, which had been scarcely felt when mixed with so many

my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool.
Not to destroy, but root them out of Heaven: 
On that opprobrious hill, and made his grove 
      To the selfsame measure as his own;
7:7 Moreover Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was before

"Me sabbee plenty"--grunted Queequeg, puffing away at his pipe and

and ribbons fluttering in the wind. The others followed him in a
candlestick, and the altars, and the vessels of the sanctuary
the valley of Shaveh, which is the king's dale.
be established in righteousness.
As I stood on the rising ground in the breeze in the cool transparent night,
27:29 And when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon
11:25 At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father,
profit; not for us to ask the why and wherefore of our work, unless

the LORD spake by me, and his word was in my tongue.
15:3 Of a foreigner thou mayest exact it again: but that which is
As one great furnace flamed; yet from those flames 
the things which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thy
his Egyptian chest, and was moreover intensified by his delirium,

things the veriest of all trifles--Captain Bildad had not only been
However, and to 'scape his punishment! 
2:23 And it came to pass, that he went through the corn fields on the

with snow water, and make my hands never so clean; 9:31 Yet shalt thou
and to the river Gozan, unto this day.
"Pray, good Mrs. Pomfret," Mr. Spencer observed, "don't be alarmed."
I would sing in my copious song your census returns of the States,
and beauty, its rich pastures, spreading flocks, orchard in blossom,

relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a
the bank. It was great fun. It didn't take Buster long to catch all the
Witnesse the hole you made in Caesars heart,
one from his evil way, and make your ways and your doings good.
and as hard as he otherwise would have done, because being spread out so
The death of each dayes Life, sore Labors Bath,
for ever; but Mrs. Ferrars has a noble spirit.  To give
28:3 Within two full years will I bring again into this place all the
His mounted scale aloft:  Nor more;but fled 

"Miss Sophy, don't be alarmed," Mrs. Theresa began; "but gracious
see you; and remember, if ever you get into any difficulty, don't be
Rousing the land with breath of flame, while you beat and beat the drum,
thou wantest to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can

And from these corporal nutriments perhaps 
Perhaps every mite has once form'd part of a sick person--yet behold!

to come near; 6:4 That lie upon beds of ivory, and stretch themselves

Trevelyan's Liberalism was above all a liberalism of the spirit , a deep feeling of communion with men fighting for country and for liberty . His passion and enthusiasm convey the courage and high adventure of Garibaldi's exploits and give the reader a unique sense of participation in the events described . The three volumes brought to the fore a characteristic of Trevelyan's prose which remained conspicuous through his later works -- a genius for describing military action with clarity and with authority . The confused rambling of guerrilla warfare , such as most of Garibaldi's campaigns were , was brought to life by Trevelyan's pen in some of the best passages in the books . His personal familiarity with the scenes of action undoubtedly contributed much to the final result , but familiarity alone would not have been enough without other qualities . Military knowledge , love of detail , and a sure feeling for the portrayal of action were the added ingredients . But the Garibaldi volumes were more than a romantic story . Trevelyan contributed considerable new knowledge of the issues connected with his subject . The outstanding example was in Garibaldi And The Thousand , where he made use of unpublished papers of Lord John Russell and English consular materials to reveal the motives which led the British government to permit Garibaldi to cross the Straits of Messina . In looking back over the volumes , it is possible to find errors of interpretation , some of which were not so evident at the time of writing . Thus Trevelyan repeats the story which pictured Victor Emmanuel as refusing to abandon the famous Statuto at the insistence of General Radetzky . Later research has shown this part of the legend of the Re Galantuomo to be false . Trevelyan accepts Italian nationalism with little analysis , he is unduly critical of papal and French policy , and he is more than generous in assessing British policy . But fifty years later the trilogy still maintains a firm place in the list of standard works on the unification of Italy , a position cautiously prophesied by the reviewers at the time of publication . Trevelyan's Manin And The Venetian Revolution Of 1848 , his last major volume on an Italian theme , was written in a minor key . Published in 1923 , it did not gain the popular acclaim of the Garibaldi volumes , probably because Trevelyan felt less at home with Manin , the bourgeois lawyer , than with Garibaldi , the filibuster . The complexities of Venetian politics eluded him , but the story of the revolution itself is told in restrained measures , with no superfluous passages and only an occasional overemphasis of the part played by its leading figure . If it is not one of his best books , it can only be considered unsatisfactory when compared with his own Garibaldi . Already Trevelyan had begun to parallel his nineteenth-century Italian studies with several works on English figures of the same period . First The Life Of John Bright appeared and seven years later Lord Grey Of The Reform Bill . Of the two , The Life Of Bright is incomparably the better biography . Trevelyan centers too exclusively on Bright , is insufficiently appreciative of the views of Bright's opponents and critics , and makes light of the genuine difficulties faced by Peel . Yet he is right when he claims in his autobiography that he drew the real features of the man , his tender and selfless motives and his rugged fearless strength . In the story of Bright and the Corn Law agitation , the Crimean War , the American Civil War , and the franchise struggle Trevelyan reflects something of the moral power which enabled this independent man to exercise so immense an influence over his fellow countrymen for so long . Because Bright's speeches were so much a part of him , there are long and numerous quotations , which , far from making the biography diffuse , help to give us the feel of the man . Associated in a sense with the Manchester School through his mother's family , Trevelyan conveys in this biography something of its moral conviction and drive . Nineteenth-century virtues , however , seem somehow to have gone out of fashion and the Bright book has never been particularly popular . The biography of Lord Grey is strictly speaking not a biography at all . It is a Whig history of the `` Tory reaction '' which preceded the Reform Bill of 1832 , and it uses the figure of Grey to give some unity to the narrative . The volume is a piece of passionate special pleading , written with the heat -- and often with the wisdom , it must be said -- of a Liberal damning the shortsightedness of politicians from 1782 to 1832 . Characteristically , Trevelyan enjoyed writing the work . The theme of glorious summer coming after a long winter of discontent and repression was , he has told us , congenial to his artistic sense . And Grey's Northumberland background was close to Trevelyan's own . But his concentration on personalities and his categorical assessment of their actions fail to convey the political complexities of a long generation harassed by world-wide war and confronted with the problem of adjustment to an unprecedented industrial and social transformation . Some historians have found his point of view not to their taste , others have complained that he makes the Tory tradition appear `` contemptible rather than intelligible '' , while a sympathetic critic has remarked that the `` intricate interplay of social dynamics and political activity of which , at times , politicians are the ignorant marionettes is not a field for the exercise of his talents '' . The Liberal-Radical heritage which informs all of Trevelyan's interpretations of history here seems clearly to have distorted the issues and oversimplified the period . For once his touch deserted him . Research in the period of Grey and Bright led naturally to a more ambitious work . Britain in the nineteenth century is a textbook designed `` to give the sense of continuous growth , to show how economic led to social , and social to political change , how the political events reacted on the economic and social , and how new thoughts and new ideals accompanied or directed the whole complicated process '' . The plan is admirably fulfilled for the period up to 1832 . More temperately than in the study of Grey and despite his Liberal bias , Trevelyan vividly sketches the England of pre-French Revolution days , portrays the stresses and strains of the revolutionary period in rich colors , and brings developments leading to the Reform Bill into sharp and clear focus . His technique is genuinely masterful . By what one reader called a `` series of dissolving views '' , he merges one period into another and gives a sense of continuous growth . But after 1832 , the narrative tends to lose its balanced , many-sided quality and to become a medley of topics , often unconnected by any single thread . Economic analysis was never Trevelyan's strong point and the England of the industrial transformation cries out for economic analysis . Yet after 1832 , the interrelations of economic and social and political affairs become blurred and the narrative becomes largely a conventional political account . Finally , the period after 1870 receives little attention and that quite superficial . Yet Britain In The Nineteenth Century became the vade mecum of beginning students of history , went through edition after edition , and continues to be reprinted up to the very present . Its success is a tribute , above all , to Trevelyan's brilliance as a literary stylist . In 1924 Trevelyan traveled to the United States , where he delivered the Lowell lectures at Harvard University . These lectures formed the nucleus of a general survey of English development which took form afterward as A History Of England . In short order , the general history became his most popular work and has remained , aside from his later Social history , the work most widely favored by the public . The History Of England has often been compared with Green's Short History . Like Green , Trevelyan aimed to write a history not of `` English kings or English conquests '' , but of the English people . The result was fortunate . The History takes too much for granted to serve as a text for other than English schoolboys , and like Britain in the nineteenth century it deteriorates badly as it goes beyond 1870 . Trevelyan's excursions into contemporary history were rarely happy ones . But as a stimulating , provocative interpretation of the broad sweep of English development it is incomparable . Living pictures of the early boroughs , country life in Tudor and Stuart times , the impact of the industrial revolution compete with sensitive surveys of language and literature , the common law , parliamentary development . The strength of the History is also its weakness . Trevelyan is militantly sure of the superiority of English institutions and character over those of other peoples . His nationalism was not a new characteristic , but its self-consciousness , even its self-satisfaction , is more obvious in a book that stretches over the long reach of English history . And yet the elements which capture his liberal and humanistic imagination are those which make the English story worth telling and worth remembering . Tolerance and compromise , social justice and civil liberty , are today too often in short supply for one to be overly critical of Trevelyan's emphasis on their central place in the English tradition . Like most major works of synthesis , The History Of England is informed by the positive views of a first-class mind , and this is surely a major work . Four years after the publication of The History Of England , the first volume of Trevelyan's Queen Anne trilogy appeared . By now he had become Regius Professor of Modern History at Cambridge and had been honored by the award of the Order of Merit . His academic duties had little evident effect on his prolific pen . Blenheim was followed in rapid succession by Ramillies And The Union With Scotland and by The Peace And The Protestant Succession , the three forming together a detailed picture of England under Queen Anne . Like his volume on Wycliffe , the work was accompanied by the publication of a selected group of documents , in this case illustrative of the history of Queen Anne's reign down to 1707 . Trevelyan was at least in part attracted to the period by an almost unconscious desire to take up the story where Macaulay's History Of England had broken off . In addition , he believed in the `` dramatic unity and separateness of the period from 1702-14 , lying between the Stuart and Hanoverian eras with a special ethos of its own '' . He saw the age as one in which Britain `` settled her free constitution '' and attained her modern place in the world . To most observers , there is little doubt that he placed an artificial strait jacket of unity upon the years of Anne's reign which in reality existed only in the pages of his history . Of the three volumes , Blenheim is easily the best . In four opening chapters reminiscent of Macaulay's famous third chapter , Trevelyan surveys the state of England at the opening of the eighteenth century . His delightful picture of society and institutions is filled with warm detail that brings the period vividly to life . He tends to underestimate -- or perhaps to view charitably -- the brutality and the violence of the age , so that there is an idyllic quality in these pages which hazes over some of its sharp reality . Yet as an evocation of time past , there are few such successful portraits in English historical literature . Once the scene is set , Trevelyan skilfully builds up the tense story until it reaches its climax in the dramatic victory of Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy at Blenheim . The account of the battle is , next to his descriptions of Garibaldi's campaigns , Trevelyan's outstanding military narrative . The scene is etched in sharp detail , the military problems brilliantly explained , and the excitement and importance of the battle made evident . If only for this modest masterpiece of military history , Blenheim is likely to be read and reread long after newer interpretations have perhaps altered our picture of the Marlborough wars . Ramillies And The Union With Scotland has fewer high spots than Blenheim and much less of its dramatic unity . Yet in several chapters on Scotland in the eighteenth century , Trevelyan copes persuasively with the tangled confusion of Scottish politics against a vivid background of Scottish religion , customs , and traditions .

persisted in fighting him.  For, thought Starbuck, I am here in this

"Did you tell her that you should soon return?"

And Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his
Gave sign of gratulation, and each hill; 
36:9 And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites
7:10 Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of
and Mr Elliot had made a point of leaving Colonel Wallis early,
see him: lo, I have told you.
that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the temple, no Whale can
and his anger was kindled greatly.
Frank's mother would never have been slighted as she was but for her.
list of the coins which the orphans had deposited with him, and exact
without rain.
held.
My interference was quite as likely to do harm as good.  It was
20:24 He shall flee from the iron weapon, and the bow of steel shall
with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, and

"Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned bones hast
The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose Sable Armes
over, each prisoner started up with a shout of joy.

"I know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from
on the grey breast of his coat, came out to meet them. This

_they_ were right who had named Mrs. Churchill as the cause.
him at this time for my marrying any more than at another.--
earliest walks, discovered an ancient respectable looking
righteousness.
coarse outer gloom of the unilluminated twelve-o'clock-at-night, I


"I said this garden belonged to me and the land outside it.  So
The measureless sweet vocalists of ages,
Sophy gave her own message to the servant, and quietly stayed at her
congregation.
Nor the deiected hauiour of the Visage,
spoken?  23:36 And the burden of the LORD shall ye mention no more:
man's nature, which has done the business for Captain Benwick."
66:24 And they shall go forth, and look upon the carcases of the men
now not believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy.
disappeared.

Dominion absolute; that right we hold 
148:8 Fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind fulfilling his
  Ant. Therefore I tooke your hands, but was indeed
portions of his remaining clothing seemed to fall off whenever he
For only at last after many years, after chastity, friendship,
his is a quiet, indolent, gentlemanlike sort of pride that would

when politeness required it, always fell.  She did her
It is a trifle, they will more than arrive there every one, and
such a terrible sprain, I couldn't say anything to him; for I was a-
had been equally marking one as an associate for her, to be received
 An infant groan, an infant fear?
this was false, for it was he who during the night-time had stolen the

In time of dearth; a son, whose worthy deeds 

refuse what you ask in such a way.  But what can be the matter?--

know he will be a little sorry too for my poor lamb."
lucidity fulfils itself in many ways. What do you mean by saying
I assure you we have not a disengaged day!--A woman with fewer
32:31 And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, Oh, this people have


4:3 But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of
of openness, and of consistency, were most usually
that almost took from me the power of dissembling.
1:17 For this deed of the queen shall come abroad unto all women, so
into the hands of his gods.
stone down upon her at last."

my peril; but Philip showed none of his usual elation at his own prowess.
with every body; and as Mrs. Elton met her with unusual graciousness,
Turnbull looked down and saw that the polished car was literally

him was yea.
had a great curiosity to see you, and was delighted to be in the way
The homeward bound and the outward bound,


they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled to
bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and
foot. And he did so, walking naked and barefoot.
say unto him, When thou lightest the lamps, the seven lamps shall give
been studying those Scriptures, now, for the last thirty years, to my
I caught you with guile.
He went straight up to the magistrate, and said: "Good evening,

    politics, creeds, modern improvements, and the interchange of nations,
3:1 Then Naomi her mother in law said unto her, My daughter, shall I
them, If ye be come peaceably unto me to help me, mine heart shall be
Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began

ultimatum; that is to say, in his unconditional skeleton.

Ephraim to ride; Judah shall plow, and Jacob shall break his clods.

them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the
"Are you well, my Emma?" was Mrs. Weston's parting question.
And beate them backward home. What is that noyse?
   Ham. Nor the Soales of her Shoo?
forgotten to take bread.
proudly against them. So didst thou get thee a name, as it is this
woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my
their God, 1:15 In the four and twentieth day of the sixth month, in
Where neither joy nor love, but fierce desire, 
him under the sun.
For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters
to suspect the old Admiral's telegram and come down to watch him.


In circuit, undetermined square or round, 
things are passed away; behold, all things are become new.
In generall Synod take away her power:
'Oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt
his father's house.
and padded with innumerable seats and boxes, and still the cleric did
sure," he said, "I cannot help you?"
plains.  They went a little way in silence, and then James
to pass, when he heareth the words of this curse, that he bless
Aloft, like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle
I should have thought we were lively enough at the Cottage

that were hungry ceased: so that the barren hath born seven; and she
for many weeks past, has been with the sole view of marking my
highminded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who
but especially by Marianne, who showed more warmth of
Sups with the ocean.  Though in Heaven the trees 
48:10 Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not
from their being evidently in a conversation which interested them.
Accosting the farmer in a haughty manner, the attorney began with, "So,
He precipitately followed the firework-man the instant he left the shop,
"Ah! that ball!--why did we wait for any thing?--why not seize the
Than that which by creation first brought forth 
them: and his disciples rebuked those that brought them.
shall ye worship, and to him shall ye do sacrifice.
     Pioneers! O pioneers!
Bold or loquacious, thus abashed replied. 
That Flesh is heyre too? 'Tis a consummation
therein; and let them not regard vain words.
hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the

unconscious grandeur of certitude that stood up like a granite tower.
It looks more like a sunset-cloud coming through the wood.

because Colonel Campbell will be wanting the carriage himself one
Full happiness with me, or rather not, 
wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled waters, I had lost the
14:28 Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again
the first information herself, to save her from hearing it abruptly
things that were sold, 4:35 And laid them down at the apostles' feet:
Israel had builded for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Zidonians, and
yea; and your nay, nay; lest ye fall into condemnation.
then the little priest said, still looking at the table, "That is
had dropped hints of past injuries and disappointments,
7:27 This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger
In that point, however, I undervalued my own magnanimity,
Above them all th' Archangel: but his face 
tarry until thou have weaned him; only the LORD establish his word. So
and heapeth unto him all people: 2:6 Shall not all these take up a

his delight.

by a rap at a neighbouring door, when a loud one was suddenly
you'll see a small hole.  That's where Cray's bullet struck,
And torment less than none of what we dread; 
run into something.  I thought you wouldn't mind my mentioning it,
38:18 For the grave cannot praise thee, death can not celebrate thee:
Oppress'd with myself that I have dared to open my mouth,

apparel.
    the gray lead,


   Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!

sword-stick an involuntary salute.
2:31 Thou, O king, sawest, and behold a great image. This great image,
gave up her life in a blessed, healing shower of rain.
Fruit of thy womb:  On me the curse aslope 
with Buster Bear yet. Now Little Joe is good-natured and full of fun as
"Add this fine pine-apple for my share, then," said his father, "and a
  Bru. A peece of worke,
Her influence would have been enough.  And now she was very conscious
To me, who live so much alone, her conversation, I assure you, is a treat."
true terror than any other aspect of this dangerous affair.  But why
turning him to the body said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes:
you will never want admirers.  Well, poor thing!  I won't
people he sent every man to his tent.

the king of Judah, I would not look toward thee, nor see thee.
9:5 For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not any
to speak, embraced Elinor again and again, turning from her

the land of Assyria: and I will place them in their houses, saith the


By four Cherubick shapes; four faces each 

2:23 The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight.
not die.
17:27 He that hath knowledge spareth his words: and a man of
    imperious waves,
Observing none, but adoration pure 


18:21 Therefore deliver up their children to the famine, and pour out
give their light: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and
in his manner.  He had, probably, never heard, and never thought of

"There," said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea
us," was continually said to him by these prudent little people.
(Such a deed seizes upon the hearts of the whole race of men,
Then first with fear surprised, and sense of pain, 



the ends of the breastplate.



15:27 And Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar,
Our servile offerings? This must be our task 
"Oh yes, sir," cried she with ready sympathy, "how you must
hosts, doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah the stay and the
prophet, saying, Out of Egypt have I called my son.
with her suburbs, 21:18 Anathoth with her suburbs, and Almon with her
the astonishment of all who knew him, soon became remarkable for



Benjamite do it? let him alone, and let him curse; for the LORD hath
1:33 And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of his
15:25 So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over
37:13 And he cast for it four rings of gold, and put the rings upon
Felt their arms on my neck as I stood, or the negligent leaning of

  Luc. Call'd you, my Lord?

their villages: 19:7 Ain, Remmon, and Ether, and Ashan; four cities
to spend with his daughter at Randalls, was passed by the two young

     Not this the world,

I forget the poem at this moment:

perhaps than in many cases of a similar kind, for it
In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the shadows that the three boats
its bow, by anticipation, was made to face the whale's head while yet
plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, which
Yet the vnshaped vse of it doth moue
     An' 'fore ould Fox could think
Cornice, trellis, pilaster, balcony, window, turret, porch,
I knew how it would be.  This is always my luck.  If there is

   Rosse. Will you to Scone?

Anguish and doubt and fear and sorrow and pain 
"Come on!  Come on!" cried Mary, as Susan started with joyful surprise;
Land. (panting).  Ruinationed him! ruinationed him!
2:12 For as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without
meadows on the other side, across another road, across a heath of
"Here they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were forced to
"Here!" cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing

disappearing.  Levelling his glass at this sight, Ahab quickly


returned out of the land of the Philistines: and she went forth to cry
from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the
and Charles is as bad as any of them.  Very unfeeling!  I must say
"Well, that's funny."
a blaze of light. It was not the ordinary darkness, in which forms
    plot and conspire.
16:17 Thou hast also taken thy fair jewels of my gold and of my

12:41 Then Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto
They were all at her disposal.

and it is singularity which often makes the worst part of our suffering,
caused the children of Israel to dwell there.

underneath--"The Spouter Inn:--Peter Coffin."
55:11 Wickedness is in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not
12:12 The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the
on the one hand, the respectable man with a mystery; on the other,
Brandished aloft, the horrid edge came down 

Gregory rose amid a great rumble of applause. His face was deadly
You've done nearly everything you could do to hang yourselves,
in quarts and coffee forbidden--then you would know you had
68:23 That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thine enemies, and

in thy wake; birds of good omen, too, but not to all;--look here,

seldom heard of, and scarcely at all regretted, when the intelligence

 Nor the lion's growl.
      And woman, lovely woman, reigns alone.
the staff of the wicked, and the sceptre of the rulers.
would not know her own room again.  I saw her as I came in;
Less than Archangel ruined, and th' excess 
18:16 So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him: and Ahab went to
Thus saith thy brother Israel, Thou knowest all the travail that hath
14:31 But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the
   Por. Thou hast some suite to Caesar, hast thou not?
"Captain Ahab," said Tashtego, "that white whale must be the same
10:38 And he that taketh not his cross, and followeth after me, is not
they were handed round for general inspection.
stirred up.
7:31 And the priest shall burn the fat upon the altar: but the breast

acting epics while you have been writing them."
"How sorry I am!  But colds were never so prevalent as they have been
27:8 For what is the hope of the hypocrite, though he hath gained,
thee, of which I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
Farmer Brown's boy tramped through the Green Forest, whistling merrily.
the zeal of the business was gone by.  Louisa could not listen at all
and walked back with her to their former station, by the stile,
In the meantime, Leonora had gone into the hall to buy a bodkin; she had
23:21 But do not thou yield unto them: for there lie in wait for him
33:7 And this is the blessing of Judah: and he said, Hear, LORD, the
     O you youths, Western youths,

at Highbury!"
But how is your acquaintance to be long supported, under such
sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great discomfiture.

had a character to preserve, and would not use her ill; and she had been
is not fair or just that you should eat me, when I set you free."
    00081429  

his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and another after that.

and I) coming down to the vicarage to keep Christmas; and a happy
God: which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy.
revive these places in the winter, but it never succeeds except with
a regard for her which he did not feel?  Was his engagement
9:9 Which maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades, and the chambers of
convenient to me that will be worth neither more nor less; or else to
the table, hid his face in his hands.  He continued immovable in this
she is sure to hear; but then she is used to my voice.  But it is very
16:25 But Omri wrought evil in the eyes of the LORD, and did worse
at the concert.  Something so formal and arrange in her air!

But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and,
unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!"
used deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips: 3:14 Whose mouth
not endure its noise.  Her nerves were under continual irritation
    it is to receive the passionate love of many friends,
As in a dream they change, they swiftly fill,
from the Pequod's mast-heads, announcing that the Jungfrau was again
twenty hours on the stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily
more abbreviate it.  In an instant's compass, great hearts sometimes

set down above as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of
coffins and hearses.  We work by the month, or by the job, or by the
A mystic cipher waits infolded.
Farms, profits, crops, markets, wages, government, are none of them
a point of it.  It is too unlikely, for me to believe it without proof."
know; for God is for me.

it.
second time, 22:16 And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the LORD,
own convenience.  If it is never convenient to you to pay it, I shall
shoulder, he could see the black figure of the old gentleman coming
to settle whether she were very pretty indeed, or only rather pretty,
against whom ye fight.
anger of the LORD.
such a scruple, why he should change his mind when it was all but done,
they languished together.

blushing, very becomingly shewed to Mr Elliot the pretty features

again.  This time Lawrence lost; he threw again and won; and so he went
three yards from the door, when he came after me, only to say,

years hence you may have as many concentrated objects as I have."

of all these things, whereof we accuse him.
     "He is escaping from everywhere," answered Father Brown.
Jehoram the son of Ahab at Jezreel, because he was sick.

is a little drawing that Louisa is doing for me.  Louisa, I wish you

at the Great House with other families; and she did not see any reason
11:10 And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and
    regular,
Vashti.
2:12 They say to their mothers, Where is corn and wine? when they
turn it now was to command.  Franklin ran upstairs to awaken Mrs.
and ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers, stand
between the first time of my seeing you and our sitting down together
Something long preparing and formless is arrived and form'd in you,

it was very agreeable that Captain Wentworth should be a richer man than
2:19 Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision. Then
3:25 The LORD is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that
first hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire,

"Well," said Turnbull, sitting down on the grass, "this is a
keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and

10:27 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them
disappointment to Mr. John Knightley; consequently to Isabella.
in such a state, that, as the phrase is, there was no holding
41:16 Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the
22:1 And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and
battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two
days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great
"Avast! gritted Ahab between his set teeth, and violently moving
He had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna
shall be against her round about.


haue no more? ha?
wicked.
notwithstanding that those marked parts or features very obviously
Thine shall submit; he over thee shall rule. 
11:18 Joshua made war a long time with all those kings.
And ceas'd the moment life appear'd.
"We are wandering, however, from the point. The only question is



"Oh! he told me all about it; that Jane Fairfax and Mr. Frank
Created evil, for evil only good; 
subject would only attach her the more to her own opinion.
Can thermonuclear war be set off by accident ? ? What steps have been taken to guard against the one sort of mishap that could trigger the destruction of continents ? ? Are we as safe as we should be from such a disaster ? ? Is anything being done to increase our margin of safety ? ? Will the danger increase or decrease ? ? I have just asked these questions in the Pentagon , in the White House , in offices of key scientists across the country and aboard the submarines that prowl for months underwater , with neat rows of green launch tubes which contain Polaris missiles and which are affectionately known as `` Sherwood Forest '' . I asked the same questions inside the launch-control rooms of an Atlas missile base in Wyoming , where officers who wear sidearms are manning the `` commit buttons '' that could start a war -- accidentally or by design -- and in the command centers where other pistol-packing men could give orders to push such buttons . To the men in the instrument-jammed bomber cockpits , submarine compartments and the antiseptic , windowless rooms that would be the foxholes of tomorrow's impersonal intercontinental wars , the questions seem farfetched . There is unceasing pressure , but its sources are immediate . `` Readiness exercises '' are almost continuous . Each could be the real thing . In the command centers there are special clocks ready to tick off the minutes elapsed since `` E hour '' . `` E '' stands for `` execution '' -- the moment a `` go order '' would unleash an American nuclear strike . There is little time for the men in the command centers to reflect about the implications of these clocks . They are preoccupied riding herd on control panels , switches , flashing colored lights on pale green or gray consoles that look like business machines . They know little about their machinery beyond mechanical details . Accidental war is so sensitive a subject that most of the people who could become directly involved in one are told just enough so they can perform their portions of incredibly complex tasks . Among the policy makers , generals , physicists , psychologists and others charged with controlling the actions of the button pushers and their `` hardware '' , the answers to my questions varied partly according to a man's flair for what the professionals in this field call `` scenarios '' . As an Air Force psychiatrist put it : `` You can't have dry runs on this one '' . The experts are thus forced to hypothesize sequences of events that have never occurred , probably never will -- but possibly might . Only one rule prevailed in my conversations with these men : The more highly placed they are -- that is , the more they know -- the more concerned they have become . Already accidental war is a silent guest at the discussions within the Kennedy Administration about the urgency of disarmament and nearly all other questions of national security . Only recently new `` holes '' were discovered in our safety measures , and a search is now on for more . Work is under way to see whether new restraining devices should be installed on all nuclear weapons . Meanwhile , the experts speak of wars triggered by `` false pre-emption '' , `` escalation '' , `` unauthorized behavior '' and other terms that will be discussed in this report . They inhabit a secret world centered on `` go codes '' and `` gold phones '' . Their conversations were , almost invariably , accompanied by the same gestures -- arms and pointed forefingers darting toward each other in arclike semicircular motions . One arm represented our bombers and missiles , the other arm `` theirs '' . Yet implicit in each movement was the death of millions , perhaps hundreds of millions , perhaps you and me -- and the experts . These men are not callous . It is their job to think about the unthinkable . Unanimously they believe that the world would become a safer place if more of us -- and more Russians and Communist Chinese , too -- thought about accidental war . The first systematic thinking about this Pandora's box within Pandora's boxes was done four years ago by Fred Ikle , a frail , meek-mannered Swiss-born sociologist . He was , and is , with the RAND Corporation , a nonprofit pool of thinkers financed by the U.S. Air Force . His investigations made him the Paul Revere of accidental war , and safety procedures were enormously increased . In recent weeks , as a result of a sweeping defense policy reappraisal by the Kennedy Administration , basic United States strategy has been modified -- and large new sums allocated -- to meet the accidental-war danger and to reduce it as quickly as possible . The chain starts at BMEWS ( Ballistic Missile Early Warning System ) in Thule , Greenland . Its radar screens would register Soviet missiles shortly after they are launched against the United States . BMEWS intelligence is simultaneously flashed to NORAD ( North American Air Defense Command ) in Colorado Springs , Colorado , for interpretation ; ; to the SAC command and control post , forty-five feet below the ground at Offutt Air Force Base , near Omaha , Nebraska ; ; to the Joint War Room of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the Pentagon and to the President . Telephones , Teletypes , several kinds of radio systems and , in some cases , television , link all vital points . Alternate locations exist for all key command centers . For last-ditch emergencies SAC has alternate command posts on KC-135 jet tankers . Multiple circuits , routings and frequencies make the chain as unbreakable as possible . The same principle of `` redundancy '' applies to all communications on these special networks . And no messages can be transmitted on these circuits until senders and receivers authenticate in advance , by special codes , that the messages actually come from their purported sources . Additional codes can be used to challenge and counterchallenge the authentications . Only the President is permitted to authorize the use of nuclear weapons . That's the law . But what if somebody decides to break it ? ? The President cannot personally remove the safety devices from every nuclear trigger . He makes the momentous decision . Hundreds of men are required to pass the word to the button pushers and to push the buttons . What if one or more of them turn irrational or suddenly , coolly , decide to clobber the Russians ? ? What if the President himself , in the language of the military , `` goes ape '' ? ? Or singlehandedly decided to reverse national policy and hit the Soviets without provocation ? ? Nobody can be absolutely certain of the answers . However , the system is designed , ingeniously and hopefully , so that no one man could initiate a thermonuclear war . Even the President cannot pick up his telephone and give a `` go '' order . Even he does not know the one signal for a nuclear strike -- the `` go code '' . In an emergency he would receive available intelligence on the `` gold-phone circuit '' . A system of `` gold '' -- actually yellow -- phones connects him with the offices and action stations of the Secretary of Defense , the Joint Chiefs of Staff , the SAC commander and other key men . All can be connected with the gold circuit from their homes . All could help the President make his decision . The talk would not be in code , but neither would it ramble . Vital questions would be quickly answered according to a preprepared agenda . Officers who participate in the continual practice drills assured me that the President's decision could be made and announced on the gold circuit within minutes after the first flash from Aj . If communications work , his decision would be instantly known in all command posts that would originate the actual go order . For these centers , too , are on the gold circuit . They include the Navy's Atlantic Command at Norfolk , Virginia , which is in contact with the Polaris subs ; ; NATO headquarters in Europe ; ; Air Force forward headquarters in Europe and in the Pacific , which control tactical fighters on ships and land bases ; ; and SAC , which controls long-range bombers and Atlas missiles . Let us look in on one of these nerve centers -- SAC at Omaha -- and see what must still happen before a wing of B-52 bombers could drop their Aj . In a word , plenty . The key man almost certainly would be Col. William W. Wisman , SAC's senior controller . He or his deputy or one of their seven assistants , all full colonels , mans the heart of the command post twenty-four hours a day . It is a quiet but impressive room -- 140 feet long , thirty-nine feet wide , twenty-one feet high . Movable panels of floor-to-ceiling maps and charts are crammed with intelligence information . And Bill Wisman , forty-three , a farmer's son from Beallsville , Ohio , is a quiet but impressive man . His eyes are steady anchors of the deepest brown . His movements and speech are precise , clear and quick . No question ruffles him or causes him to hesitate . Wisman , who has had the chief controller's job for four years , calls the signals for a team operating three rows of dull-gray consoles studded with lights , switches and buttons . At least a dozen men , some armed , are never far away from him . In front of him is a gold phone . In emergencies the SAC commander , Gen. Thomas Power , or his deputies and their staff would occupy a balcony that stretches across the length of the room above Wisman and his staff . At General Power's seat in the balcony there is also a gold phone . General Power would participate in the decision making . Wisman , below , would listen in and act . His consoles can give him instant contact with more than seventy bases around the world and with every SAC aircraft . He need only pick up one of the two red telephone receivers at his extreme left , right next to the big red button marked alert . ( There are two receivers in case one should be dropped and damaged . ) But Wisman , too , does not know the go code . He must take it from `` the red box '' . In point of fact , this is a beige box with a bright red door , about one and a half feet square and hung from the wall about six feet from the door to Wisman's right . The box is internally wired so the door can never be opened without setting off a screeching klaxon ( `` It's real obnoxious '' ) . Now we must become vague , for we are approaching one of the nation's most guarded secrets . The codes in the red box -- there are several of them covering various contingencies -- are contained in a sealed X-ray-proof `` unique device '' . They are supplied , a batch at a time , by a secret source and are continually changed by Wisman or his staff , at random intervals . But even the contents of Wisman's box cannot start a war . They are mere fragments , just one portion of preprepared messages . What these fragments are and how they activate the go order may not be revealed . The pieces must be placed in the context of the prepared messages by Wisman's staff . In addition to the authentication and acknowledgment procedures which precede and follow the sending of the go messages , again in special codes , each message also contains an `` internal authenticator '' , another specific signal to convince the recipient that he is getting the real thing . I asked Wisman what would happen if he broke out the go codes and tried to start transmitting one . `` I'd wind up full of bullet holes '' , he said , and there was no question that he was talking about bullets fired by his coworkers . Now let us imagine a wing of B-52's , on alert near their `` positive control ( or fail-safe ) points '' , the spots on the map , many miles from Soviet territory , beyond which they are forbidden to fly without specific orders to proceed to their targets . They , too , have fragments of the go code with them . As Wisman put it , `` They have separate pieces of the pie , and we have the whole pie . Once we send out the whole pie , they can put their pieces into it . Unless we send out the whole pie , their pieces mean nothing '' . Why does Wisman's ever-changing code always mesh with the fragments in possession of the button pushers ? ? The answer is a cryptographic secret . At any rate , three men out of a six-man B-52 crew are required to copy down Wisman's go-to-war message . Each must match Wisman's `` pie '' with the fragment that he carries with him . All three must compare notes and agree to `` go '' . After that , it requires several minutes of concentrated work , including six separate and deliberate actions by a minimum of three men sitting at three separate stations in a bomber , each with another man beside him to help , for an armed bomb to be released . Unless all gadgets are properly operated -- and the wires and seals from the handles removed first -- no damage can be done .
are anarchists, and surely if they were, mere mobs could not beat

not only the noise of the swords but all other noises around it,
25:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 25:2 Speak unto the
rejoice, nor the seller mourn: for wrath is upon all the multitude
The driver deserting his wagon in the street, jumping down, throwing
out to see the daughters of the land.

thing against the people of God? for the king doth speak this thing as
7:10 The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two.
"But are you willing earnestly to work?" said the lady; "you know there
"Oh!" interrupted Paul, "I know a good way of finding him out.  I
  Ham. A bloody deed, almost as bad good Mother,
was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his


"I don't know," said Lawrence, "as to that; but they say a cockfight's a
in an unpremeditated little ball.  There was a family of cousins

if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world

throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandment of
they were humbug.

was attending with great good-humour, and whenever she spoke at all,

and the ark of thy strength: let thy priests, O LORD God, be clothed
Gorgeous processions, songs of birds,
Ramoth in Gilead is ours, and we be still, and take it not out of the
And shape star-bright appeared, or brighter; clad 
without at the gate of the house of the LORD.
23:13 Then David and his men, which were about six hundred, arose and
went and told Jesus.
    shining and flowing waters,
and, whenever he turned in, he smoked them all out in succession,
fulfilled, which he spake, Of them which thou gavest me have I lost

overlooking the entrance to the Pump Room, could not but have
and now, when the due visit was paid, on her arrival, after a two years'
     They were in an eddy of excitement about some alleged peril

peaceably, and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.
So with one unanimous hiss they hunted the poor little gentle boy into a
the dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch--then
Because I loue you, I will let you know.
he wheels among 'em.  Aye, here on the coin he's just crossing the
Deeds to thy knowledge answerable; add faith, 
She had had three weeks of happy exemption from Mr. Elton;
"Why do you worry with me?" he cried. "You have expelled me as a
seven shillings in the world;--so I was very glad to give
Then may be giuen you. In few, Ophelia,
One flash of heaven's glory.
At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily writing in
8:7 Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly

The plenteousness of all, that there are no bounds,
28:38 And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, that Aaron may bear the
To see my best Friend tane before my face

She was just as determined when the morrow came, and went early,
of the Philistines.
19:13 Thine eye shall not pity him, but thou shalt put away the guilt

15:25 It seemed good unto us, being assembled with one accord, to send
16:39 And they came and besought them, and brought them out, and
loosed him, and forgave him the debt.
to that part of the room; he saw her, and, instantly rising,
Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one; 12:18 The king of Aphek, one;
stillness of the garden the swords came together with a clear
men with him, over Jordan?  19:42 And all the men of Judah answered
any one else.  And, doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage,
varying with every fresh conjecture, and all seeming
When the hermit came to the door of the little farm, the two women who
As I watch'd the ploughman ploughing,

CHAPTER 104
5:15 And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: 5:16
Adam, Heaven's high behest no preface needs: 
18:28 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up
call a "grey-headed whale."
This was all very promising; and, but for such an unfortunate fancy
High, high above the rest--To all cut off before their time,
spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber
This disturbed Skie is not to walke in
as to suppose she would shrink unnecessarily from the office of a friend.
Thee also from obedience, that, with him 
He was a particular friend of Sir John's. I believe,"

13:46 All the days wherein the plague shall be in him he shall be
Hotwell Walk; it is coming!"
She paused--and added in a low voice, "If I could

that Miss Elliot should be apparently, blind to the danger."
    items all;


and the houses were not builded.
shined in the prison: and he smote Peter on the side, and raised him
54:9 For this is as the waters of Noah unto me: for as I have sworn
10:5 By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands;
"It's the Sunshine," said a little, soft, cheery voice, "and I want to
"Do I suppose it?  You'll know it before long, Flask.  But I am going
I hear Meyerbeer's Huguenots, the Prophet, or Robert,
thereof are consumed with fire?  2:4 Then the king said unto me, For
Campbells leave town in their way to Holyhead the Monday following--
what Mr. Knightley had once said to her about Mr. Elton, the caution

of incurring it.  She was awake the whole night, and she



unto Daniel: and the king spake and said to Daniel, O Daniel, servant
to meet every body in Bath, Lady Russell would in all likelihood
he had fished him up with a lasso out of his own back garden, in
thou shalt be only oppressed and spoiled evermore, and no man shall

those intimate connections who knew it before.
20:15 Thou shalt not steal.

"Quite so!" said the doctor, mildly.  "I can understand that you
11:14 Then said Samuel to the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal,
A Heart vnfortified, a Minde impatient,
"but of their engagement I do."
Caesar, beware of Brutus, take heede of Cassius; come not
 When we all -- girls and boys --
speaketh lies.
as the frequent domestic disagreements between Robert and
16:18 And first I will recompense their iniquity and their sin double;

Main promontories flung, which in the air 
replied, as if in cool deliberation--
By Sin and Death a broad way now is paved, 
"you have done all that genius alone could do; but you, De Grey, have
passover with you before I suffer: 22:16 For I say unto you, I will

34:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone like
oriental repose.  The other engraving is quite a different affair:
It was well that he took every body's joy for granted, or he
to anybody that will bring him his wife."
rending all things in pieces. Energy, he said, was the All. He was
obliged to submit to it.  All that she could hope, was
24:14 Now therefore fear the LORD, and serve him in sincerity and in
Ample Ohio's, Kanada's bards--bards of California! inland bards--
said suddenly: "Will they let me see her in heaven once in a
"Good God! Willoughby, what is the meaning of this?
understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in
2:10 And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you
Lose all their virtue; lest bad men should boast 
A pause--the armies wait,
service to her in removing her furniture.  He really felt
I wish he may be induced to call here.  And when he does, Mary,
20:23 And he saith unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup, and be
desolate.
After a short pause.  "You have no confidence
Concocted and adusted they reduced 
Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.
As we wander'd together the solemn night, (for something I know not
"Ay, where's Susan?" repeated Philip, stopping short in the middle of a
Than in fair evening cloud, or humid bow, 
20:26 Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up,
before "Mr. Elton and his bride" was in every body's mouth,
     5

A thing not undesirable, sometime 
1:7 For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the
 Among shadows deep,
and therefore he was quite careless about it.  And he felt as

3:12 And he said, Certainly I will be with thee; and this shall be a
about a quarter of an hour the young lady's eyes, and the reddened arches
to this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure


farther than their maintenance for six months at Norland.
For not to irksome toil, but to delight, 
away his heart after other gods: and his heart was not perfect with

a Progresse through the guts of a Begger
"And my father," said Francisco.
was not worth one farthing.  "I am afraid it is not good, sir," said the
the worshipped white-elephant in the coronation procession of the
hee is.
could wipe it out. If I struck you dead I could not wipe it out.


5:20 And David came to Baalperazim, and David smote them there, and
groaning slaves. Just so, Syme thought, would the brown-gold face

house was modern and well-built. Mrs. Elton seemed most favourably
short note:
I see something of God each hour of the twenty-four, and each moment then,

soon cut it all away, and it would not do, so you lent him another,
appearance, and every day he liked him better and better.  In the room
excel, and to please; she is more anxious to succeed than I am, it is
his righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered; but his
assented; for besides the affection I now felt for Queequeg, he was
(And betimes I will) to the weyard Sisters.
2:2 And the LORD spake unto me, saying, 2:3 Ye have compassed this
with a handsome pianoforte of Marianne's.  Mrs. John

an unmistakable figure in the track of this girl as she went to
wrong place?"
if she have lodged strangers, if she have washed the saints' feet, if


I have no doubt of seeing him here about the second week in January."
admire her works.  Her companions all joined in loud applause.  They were
understanding.
The following items may be specified in actual or symbolic form in the operands of those instructions which refer to the particular items : channel , unit , combined channel and unit , combined arm and file , unit record synchronizers , inquiry synchronizers , and alteration switches . The declarative operation EQU is used to equate symbolic names to item numbers ( see page 85 ) . Continuation cards Certain Autocoder statements make provision for more parameters than may be contained in the operand ( columns 21 - 75 ) of a single line on the Autocoder coding sheet . When this is the case , the appropriate section of this manual will indicate that `` Continuation Cards '' may be used . Thus , when specifically permitted , the operand of a given line on the Autocoder coding sheet may be continued in the operand of from one to four additional lines which immediately follow . The label and operation columns must be blank and the continuation of the operand must begin in column 21 ; ; i.e. , it must be left-justified in the operand column of the coding sheet . The operand need not extend across the entire operand column of either the header card or continuation cards but may end with the comma following any parameter . Remarks may appear to the right of the last parameter on each card provided they are separated from the operand by at least two blank spaces . Illustrations of the use of continuation cards are included throughout the examples illustrating the various statements . If a continuation card follows a statement that does not permit continuation cards , the compiler will generate a NOP and issue an error message . Additional restrictions regarding the use of continuation cards with macro-instructions appear on page 106 . Reservation of index words and electronic switches The assignment of actual addresses to symbolic index word and electronic switch names occurs in Phase 3 , of the Autocoder processor . The initial availability of index words and electronic switches is determined by a table which is included in the Compiler Systems Tape . This table originally indicates that index words 1 through 96 and electronic switches 1 through 30 are available for assignment to symbolic references ; ; index words 97 through 99 are not available . The initial setting of this table may be altered , however , as described in the 7070/7074 Data Processing System Bulletin `` IBM 7070/7074 Compiler System : Operating Procedure '' , form Aj . During the first pass of Phase 3 , , references to the actual addresses of index words and electronic switches are collected and the availability table is updated . At the end of this pass , the table indicates which index words and electronic switches are not available for assignment to symbolic references . Both index words and electronic switches may have been made unavailable before the start of assignment in one of the following ways . 1 . The initial setting of the availability table indicated that the index word or electronic switch was not available for assignment . 2 . The one- or two-digit number of the index word or electronic switch was used in the operand of a symbolic machine instruction to specify indexing or as a parameter which is always an index word or electronic switch , e.g. , 3 . The one- or two-digit number of the index word or electronic switch was used in the operand of an EQU statement , e.g. , When the index words or electronic switches are reserved because of actual usage in the statements described above , the position or order of the statements within the program is not important ; ; any such reference will make the index word or electronic switch unavailable at the end of this pass . During the assignment pass of Phase 3 , , index words and electronic switches are reserved as they are encountered during assignment . Index words and electronic switches may be reserved in the following ways . The first two methods apply to both index words and electronic switches ; ; the third applies only to index words . 1 . During the assignment pass , each instruction is examined for reference to the symbolic name of an index word or electronic switch . When such a reference is found , an actual address is assigned and the availability table is changed so that the assigned index word or switch is no longer available for later assignment . 2 . If the one- or two-digit address of an index word or electronic switch is used or is included in the operand of an XRESERVE or SRESERVE statement ( see page 99 ) , the corresponding index word or electronic switch is reserved . 3 . If a statement has been assigned an address in the index word area by means of an actual label or by means of an origin statement which refers to an actual address , the corresponding index word will be reserved . These entries should normally appear at the beginning of the program or immediately following each LITORIGIN statement . Otherwise , symbolic names may have previously been assigned to these same index words . ( This method does not apply to electronic switches . ) The preceding methods allow efficient use of index words and electronic switches during a sectionalized or multi-phase program , particularly when used in conjunction with the LITORIGIN statement . Extreme caution should be used , however , to avoid the conflicting usage of an index word or electronic switch which may result from the assignment of more than one name or function to the same address . If the symbolic name or actual address of an index word or electronic switch appears or is included in the operand of an XRELEASE or SRELEASE statement ( see page 101 ) , the specified index word or electronic switch will again be made available , regardless of the method by which it was reserved . It will not , however , be used for symbolic assignment until all other index words or electronic switches have been assigned for the first time . If , at any time during the assignment pass , the compiler finds that there are no more index words available for assignment , the warning message `` No More Index Words Available '' will be placed in the object program listing , the table will be altered to show that index words 1 through 96 are available , and the assignment will continue as before . If the compiler finds that there are no more electronic switches available for assignment , the warning message `` No More Electronic Switches Available '' will be placed in the object program listing , the table will be altered to show that electronic switches 1 through 30 are available , and assignment will continue as before . The resultant conflicting usage of index words or electronic switches may be avoided by reducing the number of symbolic names used , e.g. , through the proper use of the EQU , XRELEASE , or SRELEASE statements . As noted in Appendix C , index words 97 through 99 are never available for assignment to symbolic names by the compiler ; ; also , index words 93 through 96 may have been made unavailable for assignment . Declarative statements Autocoder declarative statements provide the processor with the necessary information to complete the imperative operations properly . Declarative statements are never executed in the object program and should be separated from the program instruction area , placed preferably at its beginning or end . Otherwise , special care must be taken to branch around them so that the program will not attempt to execute something in a data area as an instruction . If the compiler does encounter such statements , a warning message will be issued . 7070/7074 Autocoder includes the following declarative statements : DA ( Define Area ) , DC ( Define Constant ) , DRDW ( Define Record Definition Word ) , DSW ( Define Switch ) , DLINE ( Define Line ) , EQU ( Equate ) , CODE,DTF ( Define Tape File ) , DIOCS ( Define Input/Output Control System ) , and DUF ( Descriptive Entry For Unit Records ) . DA , DC , DTF , and DLINE require more than one entry . The DA statement is used to name and define the positions and length of fields within an area . The DC statement is used to name and enter constants into the object program . Since the 7070 and 7074 make use of record definition words ( RDWS ) to read , write , move , and otherwise examine blocks of storage , the DA and DC statements provide the option of generating RDWS automatically . When so instructed , Autocoder will generate one or more RDWS and assign them successive locations immediately preceding the area with which they are to be associated . An RDW will be of the form Af , where xxxx is the starting location of the area and yyyy is its ending location . These addresses are calculated automatically by the processor . In some cases , it may be more advantageous to assign locations to RDWS associated with DA and DC areas in some other part of storage , i.e. , not immediately preceding the DA or DC areas . The DRDW statement may be used for this purpose . The DRDW statement may also be used to generate an RDW defining any area specified by the programmer . As many as ten digital switches may be named and provided by the DSW statement for consideration by the SETSW and logic macro-instructions . Each switch occupies one digit position in a word , can be set on or off , and is considered as logically equivalent to an electronic switch . It cannot , however , be referred to by electronic switch commands , e.g. , ESN , BSN , etc. . An individual switch or the entire set of switches in a word may be tested or altered as desired . Through use of the DLINE statement , a means is provided for specifying both the editing of fields to be inserted in a print line area and the layout of the area itself . The area may include constant information supplied by the programmer . The area may also be provided with additional data during the running of the object program by means of EDMOV or move macro-instructions . The declarative statement EQU permits the programmer to equate symbolic names to actual index words , electronic switches , arm and file numbers , tape channel and unit numbers , alteration switches , etc. , and to equate a symbol to another symbol or to an actual address . The DIOCS , DTF , and DUF statements are used when required by the Input/Output Control System . DIOCS is used to select the major methods of processing to be used , and to name the index words used by Aj . Each tape file must be described by Tape File Specifications , produced by Aj . In addition to information related to the file and its records , the File Specifications contain subroutine locations and the location of tape label information . A DUF entry must be supplied for every unit record file describing the type of file and the unit record equipment to be used . The DUF also supplies the locations of subroutines written by the user that are unique to the file . A full description of the DIOCS , DTF , and DUF statements is contained in the 7070 Data Processing System Bulletin `` IBM 7070 Input/Output Control System '' , form Aj . Brief descriptions of these three declarative statements and detailed descriptions of the formats and functions of each of the other 7070/7074 Autocoder declarative statements follow below . diocs -- define input/output control system When the Input/Output Control System is to be used in a program , a DIOCS statement must be used to select the major methods of processing to be used . This statement also allows the naming of the index words used by Aj . Source program format The basic format of the DIOCS statement is as follows : anylabel is any symbolic label ; ; it may be omitted . The entry DIOCS must be written exactly as shown . The first item in the operand , IOCSIXF , is used to specify the first IOCS index word for programs using tape files . This item may be a symbolic name or an actual one-digit or two-digit index word address in the range 3 - 94 . If the first item in the operand is omitted , the symbolic name IOCSIXF will be assigned . When an actual index word or a symbolic address is specified , Autocoder will equate the name IOCSIXF to it . The second item in the operand , IOCSIXG , is used to specify the second IOCS index word for programs using tape files . This item may be a symbolic name or an actual one-digit or two-digit index word address in the range 3 - 94 . If the second item in the operand is omitted , the symbolic name IOCSIXG will be assigned . When an actual index word or a symbolic address is specified , Autocoder will equate IOCSIXG to it .
no capability of sleep at that moment about her, and she was
world.
`` So it wasn't the earthquake that made him return to his village '' ! ! `` No . Now dammit , I don't want to go into any more explanations . Here comes Jason . Keep this to yourself '' . Reverend Jason , looking worried , hurried toward us . `` Anything wrong , cap'n ? ? The men seem to think so '' . `` Dirion found a large war party south of us . They'll probably attack at dawn '' , Montero said . He brushed past the clergyman and walked into the center of the camp . Using his hands as a trumpet he shouted , `` Fort up ! ! Fort up ! ! There's a large war party on their way '' ! ! For a second , engages , cooks , voyageurs appeared struck dumb . Then Little Billy began shouting orders to round up the ponies and fill the water buckets and for the cooks to hurry up with the meal . They all flew into action . `` That was a terrible thing to do '' , I said to Oso . The Aricaras treated us like friends . And here all the time you knew the Sioux would be using our rifles on them ! ! God , what a world you people live in '' . Oso gave me an unruffled look . `` Old Knife's got the largest war party ever seen on the river '' , he said calmly . `` What would you have done in Montero's moccasins ? ? Let Old Knife come up and kill you and your people , or would you steer him on someone else '' ? ? He shook his head . `` Mr. Manuel did that in the war . That's why the British never got the tribes to fight for the King . Mr. Manuel whispered in the ears of the Sioux that the Cheyennes were comin' to raid 'em for their horses . Then he went on to the Cheyennes and told them that the Sioux was goin' to move up . He did that with all the Nations . Hell , they were fightin' each other so hard they had no time for anyone else . The War Department wrote Mr. Manuel a letter and said he was a hero . I saw that letter . He carried it in a little wallet made of fish skin '' . `` But that was war '' , I said . `` There's no war on now '' . `` You're wrong , Matt . In this country there's a war on every time the grass turns green . First it was the Nations against themselves , then it was them against the whites . And it's goin' to go on like this year after year until the white people take over this land '' . I remember being told it would happen so fast people would think it took place overnight . `` That's why this company's important . Once we get over the mountains others will come along . That's why the Trust don't want us to make it . That bastard Chambers ! ! -- Old Knife's not the only chief he'll get to do his dirty work ! ! Before we get through he'll have the Blackfeet hankerin' for our hair and our goods . Well , talkin' ain't goin' to help -- let's fort up '' ! ! As I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection , I grudgingly found myself agreeing with Oso's logic , especially when I imagined what would have happened to Missy if Old Knife's large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company . For , unlike the Sioux and the Crows , the Aricaras are not great horsemen , nor are they aggressive like the savage Blackfeet . More of an agricultural nation , they have relied on their warriors only for defense and for survival in the endless wars of the plains . Still , I was disgusted with myself for agreeing with Montero's methods . Surprisingly , he had told the others what he had done . In the brief moment I had to talk to them before I took my post on the ring of defenses , I indicated I was sickened by the methods men employed to live and trade on the river . `` I think Montero did right '' , Amy said firmly . `` Let the savages kill each other . What do we care '' ? ? Reverend Jason was understandably bitter . `` It was a terrible thing to do . Those little children . '' But Oso replied calmly , `` Trouble ain't easy to dodge out in this country , rev'rend '' . 28 . Attack Gray Eyes attacked our camp just as the first pink threads stitched together the hills and the sky . Our camp was in the center of a wide valley . Montero had set up a strong position , using every bale and box we had in addition to barricades of logs and brush . He had ordered the ponies brought inside the fortified circle and had assigned Pierre and a band of picked engages the job of trying to keep them steady under fire . The pony herd was the one flaw in our defense ; ; the Rees undoubtedly would try to cut down as many of the animals as possible . Wildly bucking horses would make the position difficult to defend against charging warriors . The cooks had prepared one of the best meals we'd had in a long time , and on Montero's orders had baked enough bread to last the day . Buckets were filled , the herd fed and watered . The worst part had been the waiting ; ; although we didn't expect the attack before dawn , the long cloudy night , filled with the sounds of the industrious insects , seemed endless . Coyotes and hunting wolves sounded like signaling Indian scouts , the whinny of a restless pony made one's skin crawl . Oso slept unconcernedly , his rifle cradled in his arms ; ; I didn't catch a wink . Every time I closed my eyes , I saw Gray Eyes rushing at me with a knife . It was a relief when they finally came . They poured through the opening in the valley , then spread out in a long line to come at us , brandishing their lances and filling the morning with their spine-chilling scalp cry . `` Oso '' , Montero called `` I'll get Gray Eyes '' . `` That'll be a pleasure to see '' , the big black murmured as he stared down the barrel of his rifle . `` Hold your fire '' , Montero was shouting . `` Wait until my shot . I'll shoot the first man who doesn't '' . I could see them in my sights . They were about a mile off ; ; under me the ground quivered slightly . At first they were only feathers and dark indistinguishable faces and bodies , hunched over their horses' heads . Gradually they emerged as men . Gray Eyes was in the lead . His face was split by a vermilion streak , his eyes were pools of white ; ; jagged red and black medicine symbols covered his chest . He was naked except for a clout . Next to him was a young boy I was sure had sat near me at one of the trading sessions . His mouth was open , his neck corded with the strain of his screams . I found his chest in my sights . It had a red circle . The circle came nearer and nearer . My God , how long is he going to wait , I thought . Montero's rifle cracked . At first I thought he had missed . Gray Eyes remained erect . The feathered lance was still above his head . As he started to slump over , another warrior swung him onto his horse . I squeezed the trigger . At the last second I dropped my sights from the bare chest and bright red circle to the chest of his pony . I saw the pony fall like a stone and the young warrior flew over its head , bouncing like a rubber ball . He started to run but Oso's shot caught him on the wing . He jerked once in the grass and lay still . `` If you're goin' to kill 'em -- ! ! Kill 'em '' ! ! Oso growled . What else he said was lost in the rattle of gunfire on all sides . The Aricaras broke under the devastating fire , wheeled and retreated . `` Lead up ! ! Lead up ! ! They'll be back '' ! ! Montero was shouting . Far up the valley I could see the Rees circling and reorganizing . Out in front of our walls the grass was covered with dead and dying men , war shields , lances , blankets and wounded and dead horses . The morning air was filled with the sweetish odor of new-spilled blood , the acrid stench of frightened horses , and the bitterness of burned powder . A horse screamed as it twisted from side to side in a frenzy . A rifle cracked ; ; the square head fell over . One of the warriors suddenly leaped to his feet and began running across the valley to the trees that lined the small creek . His legs pumped furiously , his long black hair streamed out behind him . There was a ragged volley . He was dead before he hit the ground . `` For Christ's sake , don't waste your powder on one of 'em '' ! ! Montero shouted furiously . `` Wait for the charge ! ! The charge , I tell you '' ! ! The sharp cries at the end of the valley were faint . They grew louder as the Indians charged again . I could see their faces glistening with sweat and bear grease , their mouths open , shouting their spine-chilling cries . `` Gray Eyes is back , , Montero said . The war captain had been badly wounded and was fighting to hold his seat . I could see the blood running down his chest . He was riding between two warriors , who held him erect when he started to slump . I forgot to aim . In my sights I watched him looming bigger and bigger . Montero's shot had caught him high in the chest ; ; there was no doubt he was dying . Again we waited for Montero . This time he delayed so long that some of the engages shouted frantically , but they held their fire . The horses were only several lengths away when he fired . The bullet flung Gray Eyes from his horse . Our rolling volley swept most of the other riders from their mounts . But a few reached our wall . I heard the whir of an ax and a Canadian's face burst apart in a bloody spray . I saw Little Billy rise and fire almost point blank and an Indian's face became shattered flesh and bone . A second leaped from his horse to the top of the bale , firing four arrows in such rapid succession it didn't seem possible they were in flight . Men screamed . Oso reached up , jerked the buck from the bale and snapped his neck . Other Indians were running at the ponies , shrilling and waving blankets . Reverend Jason got one , the Canadians the others . I saw the clergyman kneel for a moment by the twitching body of the man he had shot , then run back to his position . The ponies were almost uncontrollable . The pall of dust they raised made it difficult to see when the Aricaras charged again . This time more of them hurdled the barrier . A small Indian dived at Montero , who caught him with a swift upward stroke of his rifle butt . It sounded like a man kicking a melon . Above me a dark rider was whipping his pony with a quirt in an attempt to hurdle the bales . Although my shot killed his horse , he rolled off the bale on top of me . I could smell woodsmoke , grease , and oil . His eyes were dark , fluid , fearful , and he gave a sigh as my knife went in . Coming over the wall he had seemed like a hideous devil . Now under me I could see him for what he really was , a boy dressed up in streaks of paint . The Aricaras made one last desperate charge . It was pitiful to see the thin ranks of warriors , old and young , wheeling and twisting their ponies frantically from side to side only to be tumbled bleeding from their saddles by the relentless slam , slam of the cruelly efficient Hawkinses . Others , badly wounded , gripped hands in manes , knees in bellies , held on as long as possible and then , weak from ghastly wounds , slipped sideways , slowly , almost thoughtfully , to be broken under the slashing hoofs . Some gracefully soared from the backs of their wounded , screaming mounts to make one last defiant charge before the lead split their hearts or tore their guts . None of them reached our walls again . The few survivors grudgingly turned away . In the distance we could hear the drums and the wail of the death song .
the sun shall go down over the prophets, and the day shall be dark
we going to do?"
into this place; 11:6 And what he did unto Dathan and Abiram, the sons
humiliations, was given in the pitying eye with which
to save by many or by few.
turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto
abundance.

That witnessed huge affliction and dismay, 

How you shall bid God-eyld vs for your paines,

  Hora. Heere sweet Lord, at your Seruice
affectionate way, 'that we had asked your sisters instead
specially for him. He walked up to a long mirror with the ordinary

it was perfect through my comeliness, which I had put upon thee, saith

them out of their distresses.
all jewels of gold: and every man that offered offered an offering of
Thy cherishing, thy honouring, and thy love; 
men.
buzzing down Fleet Street at this instant as I speak.  What phrase

9:16 Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up
As for oil, which I think I put in my left--"
was heated, and would therefore be particularly liable to take cold.
The Fortunes and Affayres of Noble Brutus,
"Then, surely, not your best friend," said Leonora, kissing her.
to be a splendid ball given upon the occasion at Shrewsbury, which was
thresheth in hope should be partaker of his hope.
the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good
At Darien ; thence to the land where flows 
Lull'd and late is the smoke of the First-day morning,

10:2 And all the acts of his power and of his might, and the
particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, in
For me those that have been boys and that love women,
in the heathen flesh, and the White Whale's barbs were then tempered.
"But why were you not there, Edward?--Why did you
shall wash all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the even.
12:43 And the LORD said unto Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance of
altar, and set up the hanging of the court gate. So Moses finished the
6:14 But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord
begotten strange children: now shall a month devour them with their
Conversion and repentance, as to souls 

much attached to each other, that they could not be too
of which the Abbey, with all the old neglect of prospect,
poverty only which makes celibacy contemptible to a generous public!
delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up unto me
And gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord appointed me.
of the oppressor?  51:14 The captive exile hasteneth that he may be
    anywhere,
2:25 Yet I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my


4:35 And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat of the
determined manner said,

gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.

certain, how that was.  They had dumplings too; small, but
think people make love when any body else is by?  Oh,
heard from that moment, without interruption, till her being

   Polon. God buy you; fare you well

Hath in him clos'd: whereby he does receiue
the world is enmity with God? whosoever therefore will be a friend of
     for not having been more guarded in my professions
strong and staring white hands with the face of a negro. The
There was a seriousness in Harriet's manner which prepared her,
him in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities,
And though the third thing isn't so very heraldic, it would be
But answere made it none: yet once me thought
I saw Miss Bates at the window.  True, true, you are acquainted
"A man died yesterday in Ealing.  You murdered him.  A girl had the


3:25 For the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that
7:14 And when he had called all the people unto him, he said unto
Here we lay encamp'd, it was this time in summer also.
But though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to
people: O visit me with thy salvation;
prolongingly moulded every word--"Captain Gardiner, I will not do it.
Guildensterne? Oh, Rosincrane; good Lads: How doe ye
Whom he had vanquished. After these appeared 


away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah from
every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for all
countenance of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew that the



those she loved, but not disposed to let anything be taken from her, or
     There was a silence; and then Seymour said, with an emphasis
the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of
had no opinion to give, as she had never thought about it.
almost always appear in public with Lady Middleton."
How far she succeeded in curing herself of this defect--how far she
look for his goods.
the kitchen to my mother, who lives in the wood beyond the forest, I
expeditions is often the chief thing which induces idle boys to engage in
place which the LORD hath promised: for we have sinned.
of spiritual evil. Twice already that night little unmeaning things
Whom hunger drives to seek new haunt for prey, 
had appointed: but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were
Backward I see in my own days where I sweated through fog with
Ghost beckens Hamlet.
cultivated, of course, but what had that do with the kind of plough?
22:9 And God came unto Balaam, and said, What men are these with thee?
Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel,
son of David.
    faithfully and long and then died,
Sunday, an offense to the sunlight? If you were from the first our
tempt YOU, Miss Marianne."
"We have no time for tomfoolery," said the Secretary, breaking in
The false Professor drank and wiped his false beard.
money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your
now let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may
I visit the orchards of spheres and look at the product,
that is in the waters beneath the earth: 4:19 And lest thou lift up


The counterfet presentment of two Brothers:

and I will set it up: 15:17 That the residue of men might seek after
of them declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet

in the dance till their rubbers were made up,--so young as he looked!--

So bloodily hast strooke
25:16 Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; for I am desolate and
8:14 And he brought the bullock for the sin offering: and Aaron and

     "Which could be quite certain of discovering a toy pistol,"
him as many as he needeth.
98:2 The LORD hath made known his salvation: his righteousness hath he
who, I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before the
that you are considering me as having a higher claim on Mr Elliot,
the ground and trampled under foot by the crowd.  Piedro's bench was

But her account of every thing leaves so much to be guessed,
24:11 And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed

well enough; no fear, no fear.  He's a grand, ungodly, god-like man,

the evening flew away at a very unusual rate; and the supper-table,
one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for
    libraries, shows, courts, theatres, wonderful monuments.
14:20 And the LORD said, I have pardoned according to thy word: 14:21
years old, when they spake unto Pharaoh.
Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, ('That's Bill,' thought
counterpoise of both heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely
head, and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him; he
Pleas'd with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously,
the worse for her exertions, and had spoken of those exertions as great.
manner of the nations whom they carried away from thence.
52:19 And the basons, and the firepans, and the bowls, and the
lately--I have a notion you would have no reason to repent of it.  You
peace; 2:16 And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by
thee, "Sir, it was not so much the fear of striking hidden rocks, as
those things which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not.
4:21 Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, that dwellest in the
might be previously finished.
house he made narrowed rests round about, that the beams should not be
proverb and a byword among all nations.
Violet. (claps her hands).  YES, mamma; do you hear YES?
which they afterwards felt on his account.
unto the house of David, Josiah by name; and upon thee shall he offer
33:40 And king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south in the
He stood quite still and began to talk to himself,--it was a little way


24:4 And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD, and rose up early in
excellency of our God.
"Mr. Elton is a very pretty young man, to be sure, and a very


lady by insinuations of her power over such a young man;
when he was barely fifteen; but when he appeared in the world he failed,
could not witness the rapture of delightful expectation
After dinner she would try her piano-forte. She went to it;

   Ham. Sir I lacke Aduancement


    *    *    *    *    *    *
them that were not carried away captive to Babylon; 40:8 Then they
the children who went to her school were delighted with the sight of
and there was a plague among the congregation of the LORD.
south side, and reacheth to Asher on the west side, and to Judah upon
flaws in the portrait statue, for the prince had declared it perfect.
but it should have lasted longer.  Emma was rather in dismay when
and all those tall, gaudy, almost hothouse-looking flowers.
20:9 Wherefore he said unto the messengers of Benhadad, Tell my lord
sorts, the king, chiefs, and great people generally, were in the
By blue Ontario's shore,

walk not: neither speak they through their throat.
as a strong man to run a race.
reason infallibly be faulty.  I shall not pretend to a minute
independent than Cecilia.  She had more reliance upon her own judgment,
world find it.  Does the world find it?  Cut the world loose," he
say thou, Thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.
17:12 Yet the children of Manasseh could not drive out the inhabitants
Where our Fate hid in an augure hole,
find not: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all
and apparently hopeless impediments; which is a lesson by no means to
(Tallying Earth's soil, trees, winds, tumultuous waves,)
the steep inclination of one side, instead of the mutual tapering of

gave, and the LORD hath taken away; blessed be the name of the LORD.
said, Where is Ahimaaz and Jonathan? And the woman said unto them,
the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that
"It is very pretty," said Mr. Woodhouse.  "So prettily done! Just
in the absence of Marianne, she felt very well able
LORD: it is a trespass offering.
I saw old General at bay,
1:8 Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise
bring him forth to the people.
60:21 Thy people also shall be all righteous: they shall inherit the

although that was near; for God said, Lest peradventure the people
3:3 And they set the altar upon his bases; for fear was upon them
Another yet? A seauenth? Ile see no more:
disappearance of the money and the disappearance of himself.
you with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed.
only admitted us in order to shut us up.  Keeping at the centre of

(The Almighty leader now for once has signal'd with his wand.)
that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our
removed like a cottage; and the transgression thereof shall be heavy
35:5 Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the
immediately talk of something else, though she could not comprehend

Undazzled; far and wide his eye commands; 
from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the maternal
1:10 Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of
spruce man, with a twist of black moustache and incomparable
God from the mount of Sinai, whose gray top 
The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she
I hear bravuras of birds, bustle of growing wheat, gossip of flames,
36:28 And two boards made he for the corners of the tabernacle in the
I shall speak a good word for you to all the young men,
shepherd that will stand before me?  50:45 Therefore hear ye the
without knowing, the girl was soon reiterating her story to two listeners.
thrusting his hands far down into his pockets,--"hear him, all of ye.
Hath eaten of the fruit; and is become, 
29:14 And I will be found of you, saith the LORD: and I will turn away
lambs, and they sprinkled the blood upon the altar.

34:10 The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but they that seek
O star! O ship of France, beat back and baffled long!

4:6 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast
shall be their perplexity.
and reproach shall cease.
I do not ask who you are, that is not important to me,
day we were out in the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh.  The weather
she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be
10:3 For now they shall say, We have no king, because we feared not
joined with them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob.
told him and warned him of, and saved himself there, not once nor
chest that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; "there,
any of his matters.
after apologising for not returning herself, had obliged
over right against Jericho.


cast them down from the top of the rock, that they all were broken in
angel only could have been quite without resentment under such a stroke.
man. It means a man who, if he happens to see you, will apologise.
Always our old feuillage!
4:4 He taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my
us pass over unto the other side.
rather proudly.
19:11 And he said, Go forth, and stand upon the mount before the LORD.
1:12 And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy

Alarum within. Enter King Malcome, Donalbaine, Lenox, with
for the moment all thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most


2:19 Yea, the LORD will answer and say unto his people, Behold, I will
wafted by the joyous breezes, that great mass of death floats on and
    of enemies;
It is true that Attorney Case was not in the happiest mood possible; for
or three months! Lord bless me!--I am sure it would put ME
nights those passing by his little back garden might hear his high,
pure; but it is evil for that man who eateth with offence.
that the visitors did not know and presumed to be exotic.
MacIan sat craning his neck forward with an extraordinary and
Better accommodations, he can promise them, and not a less grateful


parts thereof, 34:19 The princes of Judah, and the princes of
pounds for a good character, because he knew that he could make twenty
Israel, Your fathers dwelt on the other side of the flood in old time,
  Tit. They are, my Lord

10:43 And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, unto the camp to
something queer about that, eh?  A white whale--did ye mark that,

waters of Jordan returned unto their place, and flowed over all his
for her sake you must exert yourself."
Hugest of living creatures, in the deep
dismal shed or lodge a yard or two beyond it.  It was a
And makes a blister there. Makes marriage vowes
To set the Envier of his state, the proud 

coward; and I sing to keep up my spirits.  And I tell you what it is,
to be sure.--What! you thought nobody could dance
deceit.
Leonora?" cried one of them; and immediately, as we have seen, they ran
books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.
claim to that station by every thing within your own power, or there
mercy toward them that fear him.

15:16 Better is little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure
Who all the sacred mysteries of Heaven 
There was really nothing against the man at all.  His clothes were
applied herself to the knowledge of their former neighbour's
2:58 All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants, were

Solomon and the congregation sought unto it.
I had observed there three years previous.  I say three years, but I
And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least
Mrs. Ferrars does not know what she may be doing--what

     2
23:22 But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and do all that I
And let vs presently go sit in Councell,
midst of the nations and countries that are round about her.

4:7 And I will make her that halted a remnant, and her that was cast
The man who had kicked kept a kind of half-witted conscience or
Miss Dashwood, you cannot have an idea of the comfort it
serpent?  7:11 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts

Irishman.  Now that same wild Irishman has as much gratitude in him as
3:14 And she lay at his feet until the morning: and she rose up before
of Naboth, and the blood of his sons, saith the LORD; and I will
The Marquis broke the silence in a loud and cheerful voice.

gesture he motioned them to silence, but he pointed with one
7:30 And when she was come to her house, she found the devil gone out,


a man with black eyebrows, serious eyes, and a meaningless sort of
number was in the days of David two and twenty thousand and six
to the grave shall come up no more.

11:1 Moreover the spirit lifted me up, and brought me unto the east
once be?  14:1 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah concerning
offering of the LORD made by fire.

faith only.
owed him ten thousand talents.
went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is
The female that loves unrequited sleeps,
the border of the children of Ammon was strong.
Daughter of God and Man, immortal Eve! 


that erreth, and for him that is simple: so shall ye reconcile the

kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.
18:15 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat
Never more shall I escape, never more the reverberations,
'But of the tree whose operation brings 
none that sheweth me that my son hath made a league with the son of
A foe so proud will first the weaker seek; 
"Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his young bride's
ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ
shall fall by the sword round about thee; and I will scatter a third


Wise to fly pain, professing next the spy, 
City of the sea! city of hurried and glittering tides!
15:8 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD: but
"You're pretty smart, Mr. Otter! You're pretty smart, but there are
The Marquis started up with eyes flaming like a tiger's.
   Laer. Most humbly doe I take my leaue, my Lord
The event proved her conjecture right, though it


Sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced.  There's
MEN.
     "And it is?" asked Father Brown.
13:21 When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and
like red men.  And all the while, jet after jet of white smoke was
abomination of the children of Ammon, did the king defile.
Discretion be your Tutor. Sute the Action to the Word,
and I won't plague her; she shall chop logic, if she likes it, though she
The snow-sleighs, clinking, shouted jokes, pelts of snow-balls,
                                                    (Exit.)
Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehalelel: and of
9:14 And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth,
11:2 And when Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they that were of the


days the priests in the temple profane the sabbath, and are blameless?
But the soul is also real, it too is positive and direct,
 Famished, weeping, weak,
Had not Mrs. Weston any letter about her to produce?"  No, she had
From native moments, from bashful pains, singing them,
the country, would be that Barton cottage was taken: and I

As soon as they were fairly ascending Belmont, he began--
glory is not glory.
can be no grace.
should give him of the fruit of the vineyard: but the husbandmen beat
corn, wine, or oil, or the increase of thy kine, or flocks of thy

will overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength
every attachment.  Use your own discretion, however,
the snow always said,--
every occasion, without attention to persons or circumstances.

in patience.
liberty with you," said she, "in telling you all this.
is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt
merits that come from vivacity and variety.  But there is one
they were of consequence at home, and favourites abroad.
13:13 And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down

118:16 The right hand of the LORD is exalted: the right hand of the
always ready dug to the seaman's hand--that fatal hour was then to
after thee have the like.
and quitted not his hold till he had seated her in a chair

which both might not have heard."
her sister for that blind partiality to Edward which produced it.
Emma was called downstairs to Mr. Weston, who "could not stay
but we have never known any thing but the greatest attention
a short-handled cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for
20:23 Ye shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall ye make
The countless snow-flakes falling--(a swordless conflict,

Christian king, at any rate; he was, rather, some swarthy despot,
would I go near unto him.
Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer
Justice Headstrong's Study.
forty and one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
you would not see her equal.  Lucky fellow to get her!  He knows there


About him exercised heroick games 


Harriet felt this too much to utter more than a few words
ocean, far from all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and
their tongue a sharp sword.
When you come to a frigate, of course, you are more confined;
Enter three Murtherers.
Huram my father's, 2:14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan,
Not higher that hill, nor wider looking round, 
be conceded to the mathematicians that four is twice two. But two
11:24 For if thou wert cut out of the olive tree which is wild by
of your mouth, until the day I bid you shout; then shall ye shout.
"'Bout ninety, dey say," he gloomily muttered.

morning with faces of anxiety.  Tarlton and Loveit's were the most
was always willing to assist in their efforts to do good, there were
shall be filled with gravel.

gaping as a rustic gapes at a conjuring trick. He had seen no cab
of thy son, and of thy son's son, what things I have wrought in Egypt,
fierce than the evening wolves: and their horsemen shall spread
all that part of her reserve which ought to be overcome, all that
stared from one to the other, temporarily stunned by their
with deceit: but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the
8:24 And he looked up, and said, I see men as trees, walking.
which kept off every indication of fatigue, and made
"My God!" said the Colonel, "someone has shot at us."
This man was one of the villains against whom the honest orator expressed
of fight with drawn swords also, but still sombre in their dark
escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven: 12:26
should be so late.  He was not in his best spirits, but seemed

one he lamb, and offer him for a trespass offering, and the log of
not sufficient reason to govern and conduct yourselves.  Without
white; the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a plague of
"Follow me!" she said.
(No sweetness debonair of tearful harp or glib piano thine,)
5:15 The joy of our heart is ceased; our dance is turned into
In the sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of the most remarkable

can judge how far THAT might be pleasing to Mrs. Smith;




walk with them part of the way to Naples.  "Yes, all the way most
21:18 But there shall not an hair of your head perish.

to change it for a play, and with you.  But, it had better
usual composure--"there would have been no danger.  The danger
"Well, then, I know who it is from, Colonel.  And I
with pure gold.
behold, it was hid in his tent, and the silver under it.
even the cities of the country round about.
I command you this day, to go after other gods, which ye have not
He left it in thy power; ordained thy will 

Thence to a Lightnesse, and by this declension

2:10 Then she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and
I was borne free as Caesar, so were you,


Burs.  So your friend Mr. Talbot could not afford to bespeak a dress--

That vnmatch'd Forme and Feature of blowne youth,
the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall
to his ability that vowed shall the priest value him.
GOD; As the vine tree among the trees of the forest, which I have
  Both. We will my Lord.
or diplomatic pursuit, for his exit had been a sudden impulse.

of all the romances about the countries of the Sun.
Which we do tender, as we deerely greeue
therefore make ye a league with us.
he will, of course, put forth his best."
Shall be a Fume, and the Receit of Reason
and rewardeth transgressors.
Sally, a Chambermaid.
    Guardafui, Bon, or Bajadore,

The log was heaved.  The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a
shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the
Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians,
 
particular business of my own at eight.  So I'm to consult her and to
for twenty pieces of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt.

possession of his fathers shall he return.
inflicting a severe disappointment when she told her

astonishment: 4:17 That they may want bread and water, and be astonied

wide and endless waters, only bounded by the far-off unseen Eastern
and we should be losing Miss Anne, too, if there is a party at her father's;
12:5 Sing unto the LORD; for he hath done excellent things: this is
Babylon set himself against Jerusalem this same day.
she and Mr. Weston were soon out of the house together and on
be radish leaves. She examined them very closely, so that she might
     "I wasn't thinking of Dreyfus," said Father Brown.
want of something to do.  They were judiciously generous; and whilst they
 Can delight,
I shall touch that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall
   Ham. Very well. Follow that Lord, and looke you
And who most cautious? for I would be more cautious,
majesty and excellency; and array thyself with glory and beauty.
darkened like a French grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and
22:3 All thy rulers are fled together, they are bound by the archers:
the fish, the creature's future wake through the darkness is almost
nervous,--she has not Elinor's constitution;--and one must
according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet were by no
are; I can't stay to thank you as I should like: good-bye!"

estate, which shall come with an army, and shall enter into the
To their deafe pillowes will discharge their Secrets:
Jews gathered themselves together in their cities throughout all the
in the grass.

"Pan again!" said Dr. Bull irritably. "You seem to think Pan is
Rosamond, followed by all the company, amongst whom, to her great joy,
lately added to their establishment.
of my hearing any thing of Miss Fairfax to-day."

error in it."

the dagger out of his grasp and disabled him just below the wrist.
to be all on her side; and had not the smallest doubt (nor have I now)
an animated one; it was a man on horseback riding towards them.
Came flying, and in mid air aloud thus cried. 

happening to.  Her Christian name:  I always forget her Christian name."
5:25 Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great, and thine
degree, O LORD God.

said, "The tailor and his wife were here this morning, and if you will
as the nieces of the gentleman who for many years had
once.  He flies into diabolical passions sometimes.  Do ye see this
thee in their perfection for the multitude of thy sorceries, and for
9:12 Who is the wise man, that may understand this? and who is he to

to say that his aunt felt already much better for the change,
in his son's days will I bring the evil upon his house.
Jehoshaphat being then king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Je hoshaphat
12:6 For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; for I
dwelt in Hazerim, even unto Azzah, the Caphtorims, which came forth

even the city of Arba the father of Anak, which city is Hebron.

Which drizel'd blood vpon the Capitoll:
Very well.  You'd expect a secret paper passing between such people,
Oh, Starbuck! is it not hard, that with this weary load I bear, one
My sun has his sun and round him obediently wheels,
"Oh, sir, oh, Mr. Eden," said Frederick, turning to him.
None may come to the trial till he or she bring courage and health,
the others, though already well at the gallop, had difficulty in
As liberal and free as infinite; 
sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

so builded. And he that sounded the trumpet was by me.
chamberlains?  1:16 And Memucan answered before the king and the
Most reason is that reason overcome. 
iron club.
away with a full heart; and, after making two or three attempts to

higher than thou.

And who in want a hollow Friend doth try,
150:5 Praise him upon the loud cymbals: praise him upon the high
( E ) In addition to the penalties provided in Title 18 , United States Code , Section 1001 , any person guilty of any act , as provided therein , with respect to any matter under this Title , shall forfeit all rights under this Title , and , if payment shall have been made or granted , the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same . ( F ) In connection with any claim decided by the Commission pursuant to this Title in which an award is made , the Commission may , upon the written request of the claimant or any attorney heretofore or hereafter employed by such claimant , determine and apportion the just and reasonable attorney's fees for services rendered with respect to such claim , but the total amount of the fees so determined in any case shall not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award . Written evidence that the claimant and any such attorney have agreed to the amount of the attorney's fees shall be conclusive upon the Commission : Provided , however , That the total amount of the fees so agreed upon does not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award . Any fee so determined shall be entered as a part of such award , and payment thereof shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury by deducting the amount thereof from the total amount paid pursuant to the award . Any agreement to the contrary shall be unlawful and void . The Commission is authorized and directed to mail to each claimant in proceedings before the Commission notice of the provisions of this subsection . Whoever , in the United States or elsewhere , pays or offers to pay , or promises to pay , or receives on account of services rendered or to be rendered in connection with any such claim , compensation which , when added to any amount previously paid on account of such services , will exceed the amount of fees so determined by the Commission , shall be guilty of a misdemeanor , and , upon conviction thereof , shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than twelve months , or both , and if any such payment shall have been made or granted , the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same , and , in addition thereto , any such person shall forfeit all rights under this Title . ( G ) The Attorney General shall assign such officers and employees of the Department of Justice as may be necessary to represent the United States as to any claims of the Government of the United States with respect to which the Commission has jurisdiction under this title . Any and all payments required to be made by the Secretary of the Treasury under this title pursuant to any award made by the Commission to the Government of the United States shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts . ( H ) The Commission shall notify all claimants of the approval or denial of their claims , stating the reasons and grounds therefor , and if approved , shall notify such claimants of the amount for which such claims are approved . Any claimant whose claim is denied , or is approved for less than the full amount of such claim , shall be entitled , under such regulations as the Commission may prescribe , to a hearing before the Commission , or its duly authorized representatives , with respect to such claim . Upon such hearing , the Commission may affirm , modify , or revise its former action with respect to such claim , including a denial or reduction in the amount theretofore allowed with respect to such claim . The action of the Commission in allowing or denying any claim under this title shall be final and conclusive on all questions of law and fact and not subject to review by the Secretary of State or any other official , department , agency , or establishment of the United States or by any court by mandamus or otherwise . ( I ) The Commission may in its discretion enter an award with respect to one or more items deemed to have been clearly established in an individual claim while deferring consideration and action on other items of the same claim . ( J ) The Commission shall comply with the provisons of the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 except as otherwise specifically provided by this title . Sec. 5 . The Commission shall , as soon as possible , and in the order of the making of such awards , certify to the Secretary of the Treasury and to the Secretary of State copies of the awards made in favor of the Government of the United States or of nationals of the United States under this Title . The Commission shall certify to the Secretary of State , upon his request , copies of the formal submissions of claims filed pursuant to subsection ( B ) of Section 4 of this Act for transmission to the foreign government concerned . Sec. 6 . The Commission shall complete its affairs in connection with settlement of United States-Yugoslav claims arising under the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 not later than December 31 , 1954 : : Provided , That nothing in this provision shall be construed to limit the life of the Commission , or its authority to act on future agreements which may be effected under the provisions of this legislation . Sec. 7 . ( A ) Subject to the limitations hereinafter provided , the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to pay , as prescribed by Section 8 of this Title , an amount not exceeding the principal of each award , plus accrued interests on such awards as bear interest , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title , in accordance with the award . Such payments , and applications for such payments , shall be made in accordance with such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe . ( B ) There shall be deducted from the amount of each payment made pursuant to subsection ( C ) of Section 8 , as reimbursement for the expenses incurred by the United States , an amount equal to 5 per centum of such payment . All amounts so deducted shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts . ( C ) Payments made pursuant to this Title shall be made only to the person or persons on behalf of whom the award is made , except that -- ( 1 ) if such person is deceased or is under a legal disability , payment shall be made to his legal representative : Provided , That if the total award is not over $500 and there is no qualified executor or administrator , payment may be made to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto , without the necessity of compliance with the requirements of law with respect to the administration of estates ; ; ( 2 ) in the case of a partnership or corporation , the existence of which has been terminated and on behalf of which an award is made , payment shall be made , except as provided in paragraphs ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto ; ; ( 3 ) if a receiver or trustee for any such partnership or corporation has been duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States and has not been discharged prior to the date of payment , payment shall be made to such receiver or trustee in accordance with the order of the court ; ; ( 4 ) if a receiver or trustee for any such partnership or corporation , duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States , makes an assignment of the claim , or any part thereof , with respect to which an award is made , or makes an assignment of such award , or any part thereof , payment shall be made to the assignee , as his interest may appear ; ; and ( 5 ) in the case of any assignment of an award , or any part thereof , which is made in writing and duly acknowledged and filed , after such award is certified to the Secretary of the Treasury , payment may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be made to the assignee , as his interest may appear . ( D ) Whenever the Secretary of the Treasury , or the Comptroller General of the United States , as the case may be , shall find that any person is entitled to any such payment , after such payment shall have been received by such person , it shall be an absolute bar to recovery by any other person against the United States , its officers , agents , or employees with respect to such payment . ( E ) Any person who makes application for any such payment shall be held to have consented to all the provisions of this Title . ( F ) Nothing in the Title shall be construed as the assumption of any liability by the United States for the payment or satisfaction , in whole or in part , of any claim on behalf of any national of the United States against any foreign government . Sec. 8 . ( A ) There are hereby created in the Treasury of the United States ( 1 ) a special fund to be known as the Yugoslav Claims Fund ; ; and ( 2 ) such other special funds as may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be required each to be a claims fund to be known by the name of the foreign government which has entered into a settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title . There shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of the proper special fund all funds hereinafter specified . All payments authorized under Section 7 of this Title shall be disbursed from the proper fund , as the case may be , and all amounts covered into the Treasury to the credit of the aforesaid funds are hereby permanently appropriated for the making of the payments authorized by Section 7 of this Title . ( B ) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to cover into -- ( 1 ) the Yugoslav Claims Fund the sum of $17,000,000 being the amount paid by the Government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia pursuant to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 ; ; ( 2 ) a special fund created for that purpose pursuant to subsection ( A ) of this section any amounts hereafter paid , in United States dollars , by a foreign government which has entered into a claims settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title . ( C ) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed out of the sums covered into any of the funds pursuant to subsection ( B ) of this section , and after making the deduction provided for in Section 7 ( B ) of this Title -- ( 1 ) to make payments in full of the principal of awards of $1,000 or less , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title ; ; ( 2 ) to make payments of $1,000 on the principal of each award of more than $1,000 in principal amount , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title ; ; ( 3 ) to make additional payment of not to exceed 25 per centum of the unpaid principal of awards in the principal amount of more than $1,000 ; ; ( 4 ) after completing the payments prescribed by paragraphs ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of this subsection , to make payments , from time to time in ratable proportions , on account of the unpaid principal of all awards in the principal amount of more than $1,000 , according to the proportions which the unpaid principal of such awards bear to the total amount in the fund available for distribution at the time such payments are made ; ; and ( 5 ) after payment has been made of the principal amounts of all such awards , to make pro rata payments on account of accrued interest on such awards as bear interest . ( D ) The Secretary of the Treasury , upon the concurrence of the Secretary of State , is authorized and directed , out of the sum covered into the Yugoslav Claims Fund pursuant to subsection ( B ) of this section , after completing the payments of such funds pursuant to subsection ( C ) of this Section , to make payment of the balance of any sum remaining in such fund to the Government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia to the extent required under Article 1 ( C ) of the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 . The Secretary of State shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the total cost of adjudication , not borne by the claimants , attributable to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 . Such certification shall be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to review by any other official or department , agency , or establishment of the United States . Sec. 9 . There is hereby authorized to be appropriated , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , such sums as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions under this Title .
16:34 In his days did Hiel the Bethelite build Jericho: he laid the
from the vessels of cups, even to all the vessels of flagons.
have been ashamed to beg for more.  She returned home to the old castle,
Jehoshaphat in the forefront of them, to go again to Jerusalem with
Ephraimites: and it was so, that when those Ephraimites which were
last night, and was showing 'em to Lightfoot; and I was so glad to think
frequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from
23:32 At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an
son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they
your peace.
A Sword vnbaited, and in a passe of practice,
is to be managed.  There is not a room in this cottage
and strong that he dressed himself in his royal robes and took his gold

the covering of the badgers' skins that is above upon it, and the
five."
bedchamber, to strengthen their suspicions, till, just as they were going

after persisting in rising, confessed herself unable
"Life, life an endless march, an endless army, (no halt, but it is
and sought for the meaning, then, behold, there stood before me as the

driving off the spleen and regulating the circulation.  Whenever I

Captain Harville smiled, as much as to say, "Do you claim that
end, to insert the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the
ostentatious little Flask would now and then stamp with impatience;

51:48 Then the heaven and the earth, and all that is therein, shall
"I am not at all surprised," he said, "at the world being against
the Green Forest who could make Farmer Brown's boy feel fear as they
To labour calls us, now with sweat imposed, 
"My dear sir," said the attorney, taking him by the button, "you have no
In sin for ever lost from life; this act 

6:13 Then shall ye know that I am the LORD, when their slain men shall
unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.

unusual in the fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed the White

stopped.
Indebted and undone, hath none to bring; 



and Emma could not but pity such feelings, whatever their origin,
colours--brown and blue and green and flaming rose-colour; as

"Insulted your mother!" exclaimed the gentleman incredulously.
"Well," said she, "and you soon silenced Mr. Cole, I suppose?"
out for a comfortable small house for them, helping them

But by an appeal to her affection for her mother,
first caught my attention; and what followed was a positive
must in this manner be killed.

121:2 My help cometh from the LORD, which made heaven and earth.

the wee leaves faintly marked a regular row. They did not make a crack,
understand: 15:11 Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man;
on.  For the next six mortal months they will think of nothing but
That glory then, when thou no more wast good, 
break-up of the family exceedingly.  Their respectability was
Of the solemn and murky mystery about the fate of the President,
Fred.  Patties, ma'am! kickshaws!  I hate kickshaws.  Not worth putting

messengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went up into the house of the
8:27 But the men marvelled, saying, What manner of man is this, that
Will.  Yes, sir, I saw the landlady herself; she said she would come up
Israel.
As heere by Caesar, and by you cut off,
it will be only to shew that my spirit is humbled,
But I do not talk of the beginning or the end.
down against a ship's side.
indeed!" said the godmother, who was one of the company; "MY Rosamond
Embrace thy friends, leave all in order,
Here is realization,
87:5 And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her:
6:15 Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be
to the house, while the girls were ranging over the town
looked down that passage, the man you saw was yourself--in a mirror?"

7:38 One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:39 One young
often gave strength to her tired fingers.
on his errand, turn round laughing and run down the passage
"Why is it," he asked vaguely, "that I think you are quite a decent
house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and for the
at the Cottage; and it being now too late in the year for such visits
"I?" said Lawrence, starting; "why do you say that I look black?"

"But I have something else to do," said Jem, laughing, "so I shall not
and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank,
Mr. Woodhouse was to be talked into an acquiescence of his daughter's
people all came to her for advice. She used to sit at the open door of
I hope you may yet live to be in easy circumstances."
6:6 And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD, a ram
feathers, and his nails like birds' claws.
 
Their manner of living and their numerous employments are exactly

your fathers: but ye have not inclined your ear, nor hearkened unto
eaten, and talked a long while, even till break of day, so he
the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything that

12:24 Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap; which
may endeavour to deserve her,"--took leave, and went away.
that a competency of the dead tongues could be had nowhere but at a
and with a passion I think at least partisan.  I was quite conscious
children of Israel thy servants, and confess the sins of the children
6:5 And David and all the house of Israel played before the LORD on
round the globe, burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!
The oceans to be cross'd, the distant brought near,
there must be an answer written to Mrs. Cole."
7:37 The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and
stuff to Tobiah out of the chamber.
Jeroboam with the sword.
For people had found out how fearful and vast and silent was
I do suspect he would not have had a pair of horses for himself,

stranger, as he that was born among them; half of them over against
    masses (even to expose them,)

one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of
self besides.
immediately gave her a suspicion.  Some vague report had
54:4 Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my
valiantest, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants
They arrived.--Mrs. Weston was alone in the drawing-room:--
Pretending so commanded to consult 

    suffering of sick persons is reliev'd,
"He's gone off his head," said the little Doctor, staring.
Anne found Captain Benwick getting near her, as soon as they were all
me touch it--lift it.  Strange, that I, who have handled so many
32:2 And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host: and he
"The supernatural, of course," he said, "is quite another thing;
50:19 And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the place of

salvation:
he was not in spirits.  The whole family perceived it,
These opposites won't do.  They don't work.  They don't fight.
Egypt, were threescore and ten.

 
     15

thing really happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer
   Macb. Throw Physicke to the Dogs, Ile none of it.
But long ere our approaching heard within 
in all things makes the sounding-board is this--there's naught
to buy all, could determine on none, and dawdled away her

Emma was sadly fearful that this second disappointment would be
To lessen thee, against his purpose serves 
Amelioration is one of the earth's words,

Him counterfeit, if any eye beheld. 
glittering eye-glasses through which he looked or the beautiful
113:2 Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and for

    man leaving charges before a journey.
as follows:--When the harvest was finished the tenants were to have half
I was the attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy at the mat.  As I

   Dost thou know who made thee,
left but a fistful of crumbs. His Mammy said,--
To fill the gross the torpid bulk with vital religious fire,
12:21 There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be
And cloudy in aspect thus answering spake. 
By the waters of life, where'er they sat 

and I thought it would be more comfortable for them to
little had seen so much variety in his address to her
3:10 And yet for all this her treacherous sister Judah hath not turned

so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to anger-glow.
and personally intreat her good offices in his favour.--
If thou resist.  The Fiend looked up, and knew 

"The profession has its utility, but I should be sorry to see
94:10 He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that
of brooks they pass away; 6:16 Which are blackish by reason of the
thee.
So I begged he would not--for really as to ours being gone, I could


 But I shall rise victorious, and subdue 
he had led.  When he entered I observed that he carried no umbrella,
Of all yet done; a creature, who, not prone 
But wherefore let we then our faithful friends, 
His longitude through Heaven's high road; the gray 

for you, when ye came out of Egypt; and what ye did unto the two kings
myself guilty of greater impropriety in accepting a horse
The Pequod, of Nantucket, Meets the Samuel Enderby, of London.
    Okeechobee, I cross the hummock-land or through pleasant openings


of the enemy and avenger.
6:5 And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast
From his slack hand the garland wreathed for Eve 
kept so by me to this hour.  Not a soul of all my relations
To the sights and scenes--to forming the line of battle,
put them in the house of his gods; 1:8 Even those did Cyrus king of
as well as of some apparent confusion as to whom their party consisted of.
9:39 Then Peter arose and went with them. When he was come, they
and for horsemen?  18:25 Am I now come up without the LORD against
there was a blush on Jane's cheek which gave it a meaning not

                           CURTAIN FALLS.
and calculations.  I only mean that if Mr Elliot should some time hence
God made, and every herb, before it grew 

snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and a soul in him,
All false gods resemble Moloch , at least in the early phases of their careers , so it would be unreasonable to expect any form of idol-worship to become widespread without the accompaniment of human sacrifice . But there is reason in all things , and in this country the heathenish cult of the motor-car is exceeding all bounds in its demands . The annual butchery of 40,000 American men , women and children to satiate its blood-lust is excessive ; ; a quota of 25,000 a year would be more than sufficient . No other popular idol is accorded even that much grace . If the railroads , for example , regularly slaughtered 25,000 passengers each year , the high priests of the cult would have cause to tremble for their personal safety , for such a holocaust would excite demands for the hanging of every railroad president in the United States . But by comparison with the railroad , the motor car is a relatively new object of popular worship , so it is too much to hope that it may be brought within the bounds of civilized usage quickly and easily . Yet it is plainly time to make a start , and to be effective the first move should be highly dramatic , without being fanatical . Here , then , is what Swift would have called a modest proposal by way of a beginning . From next New Year's Day let us keep careful account of each successive fatality on the highways , publicizing it on all media of communication . To avoid suspicion of bigotry , let the hand of vengeance be stayed until the meat-wagon has picked up the twenty-five thousandth corpse ; ; but let the twenty-five thousand and first butchery be the signal for the arrest of the 50 state highway commissioners . Then let the whole lot be hanged in a public mass execution on July 4 , 1963 . The scene , of course , should be nine miles northwest of Centralia , Illinois , the geographical center of population according to the census . A special grandstand , protected by awnings from the midsummer sun of Illinois , should be erected for occupancy by honored guests , who should include the ambassadors of all those new African nations as yet not quite convinced that the United States is thoroughly civilized . The band should play the Rogues' March as a processional , switching to `` Hail Columbia , Happy Land '' ! ! As the trap is sprung . Independence Day is the appropriate date as a symbolical reminder of the American article of faith that governments are instituted among men to secure to them certain inalienable rights , the first of which is life , and when any government becomes subversive of that end , it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it . The highway system is an agency of government , and when it grinds up 40,000 Americans every year the government is destroying its own taxpayers , which is obviously a silly thing for any government to do . Hanging the responsible officials would not abolish the government , but would emphasize its accountability for the lives of its individual citizens , which would certainly alter it , and definitely for the better . Moreover , the salubrious effects would not be exclusively political , but at least partially , and perhaps primarily social . It would challenge sharply not the cult of the motor car itself but some of its ancillary beliefs and practices -- for instance , the doctrine that the fulfillment of life consists in proceeding from hither to yon , not for any advantage to be gained by arrival but merely to avoid the cardinal sin of stasis , or , as it is generally termed , staying put . True , the adherents of staying put are now reduced to a minor , even a miniscule sect , and their credo , `` Home-keeping hearts are happiest '' , is as disreputable as Socinianism . Nonetheless , although few in number they are a stubborn crew , as tenacious of life as the Hardshell Baptists , which suggests that there is some kind of vital principle embodied in their faith . Perhaps there is more truth than we are wont to admit in the conviction of that ornament of Tarheelia , Robert Ruark's grandfather , who was persuaded that the great curse of the modern world is `` all this gallivantin' '' . In any event , the yearly sacrifice of 40,000 victims is a hecatomb too large to be justified by the most ardent faith . Somehow our contemporary Moloch must be induced to see reason . Since appeals to morality , to humanity , and to sanity have had such small effect , perhaps our last recourse is the deterrent example . If we make it established custom that whenever butchery on the highways grows excessive , say beyond 25,000 per annum , then somebody is going to hang , it follows that the more eminent the victim , the more impressive the lesson . To hang 50 Governors might be preferable except that they are not directly related to the highways ; ; so , all things considered , the highway commissioners would seem to be elected . As the new clouds of radioactive fallout spread silently and invisibly around the earth , the Soviet Union stands guilty of a monstrous crime against the human race . But the guilt is shared by the United States , Britain and France , the other members of the atomic club . Until Moscow resumed nuclear testing last September 1 , the US and UK had released more than twice as much radiation into the atmosphere as the Russians , and the fallout from the earlier blasts is still coming down . As it descends , the concentration of radioactivity builds up in the human body ; ; for a dose of radiation is not like a flu virus which causes temporary discomfort and then dies . The effect of radiation is cumulative over the years -- and on to succeeding generations . So , while we properly inveigh against the new poisoning , history is not likely to justify the pose of righteousness which some in the West were so quick to assume when Mr. Khrushchev made his cynical and irresponsible threat . Shock , dismay and foreboding for future generations were legitimate reactions ; ; a holier-than-thou sermon was not . On October 19 , after the Soviets had detonated at least 20 nuclear devices , Ambassador Stevenson warned the UN General Assembly that this country , in `` self protection '' , might have to resume above-ground tests . More recently , the chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg , `` admitted '' to a news conference in Las Vegas , Nevada , that the US might fall behind Russia ( he apparently meant in weapons development ) if the Soviets continue to test in the atmosphere while we abstain . The trial balloons are afloat . All of which makes it more imperative than ever that the biological and genetic effects of fallout be understood . But for the average citizen , unfortunately , this is one of science's worst-marked channels , full of tricky currents and unknown depths . The scientists , in and out of government , do not agree on some of the most vital points , at least publicly . On the one hand , the Public Health Service declared as recently as October 26 that present radiation levels resulting from the Soviet shots `` do not warrant undue public concern '' or any action to limit the intake of radioactive substances by individuals or large population groups anywhere in the Aj . But the PHS conceded that the new radioactive particles `` will add to the risk of genetic effects in succeeding generations , and possibly to the risk of health damage to some people in the United States '' . Then it added : `` It is not possible to determine how extensive these ill effects will be -- nor how many people will be affected '' . Having hedged its bets in this way , PHS apparently decided it would be possible to make some sort of determination after all : `` At present radiation levels , and even at somewhat higher levels , the additional risk is slight and very few people will be affected '' . Then , to conclude on an indeterminate note : `` Nevertheless , if fallout increased substantially , or remained high for a long time , it would become far more important as a potential health hazard in this country and throughout the world '' . Dr. Linus Pauling , a Nobel Prize winner in chemistry , has been less ambiguous , whether you choose to agree with him or not . After declaring , in an article last month in Frontier Magazine , that the Russian testing `` carries with it the possibility of the most tragic consequences of any action in the history of the world '' , he gave this estimate of the biologic and genetic consequences if the new Soviet shots totaled 200 megatons : The damage to human germ plasm would be such that in the next few generations 160,000 children around the world would be born with gross physical or mental defects . Long-lived carbon-14 from the fusion process would cause four million embryonic , neonatal or childhood deaths and stillbirths over the next 20 generations , and between 200,000 and one million human beings now living would have their lives cut short by radiation-produced diseases such as leukemia . Most of these would be in the Northern Hemisphere , where the fallout is concentrating . Pauling's estimate of 200 megatons yield from the present series of Russian tests will probably turn out to be too high , but a total of 100 megatons is a distinct possibility . The lack of scientific unanimity on the effects of radiation is due in part to insufficient data covering large population groups , from which agreed-on generalizations could be drawn . But more than one conscientious researcher has been inhibited from completely frank discussion of the available evidence by the less excusable fact that fallout has been made a political issue as well as a scientific problem . Its dangerous effects have been downgraded to the public by some who believe national security requires further testing . An illustration of this attitude is found in John A. McCone's letter to Dr. Thomas Lauritsen , reported in a note elsewhere in this issue of The New Republic . To this day the Atomic Energy Commission shies away from discussing the health aspects of fallout . A recent study on radiation exposure by the AEC's division of biology and medicine stated : `` The question of the biological effect of ( radiation ) doses is not considered '' herein . Of course , the AEC is in a bind now . If it comes down too hard on the potential dangers of fallout , it will box the President on resuming atmospheric tests . So the Commission's announcements of the new Soviet shots have been confined to one or two bleak sentences , with the fission yield usually left vague . Now , of course , that the Russians are the nuclear villains , radiation is a nastier word than it was in the mid , when the US was testing in the atmosphere . The prevailing official attitude then seemed to be that fallout , if not exactly good for you , might not be much worse than a bad cold . After a nuclear blast , one bureaucrat suggested in those halcyon days , about all you had to do was haul out the broom and sweep off your sidewalks and roof . Things aren't that simple anymore . Yet if Washington gets too indignant about Soviet fallout , it will have to do a lot of fast footwork if America decides it too must start pushing up the radiation count . How much fallout will we get ? ? As of October 25 , the AEC had reported 24 shots in the new Soviet series , 12 of them in a megaton range , including a super bomb with a yield of 30 to 50 megatons ( the equivalent of 30 million to 50 million tons of TNT ) ; ; and President Kennedy indicated there were one or two more than those reported . Assuming the lower figure for the big blast and one shot estimated by the Japanese at 10 megatons , a conservative computation is that the 24 announced tests produced a total yield of at least 60 megatons . Some government scientists say privately that the figure probably is closer to 80 megatons , and that the full 50-megaton bomb that Khrushchev mentioned may still be detonated . If the new Soviet series has followed the general pattern of previous Russian tests , the shots were roughly half fission and half fusion , meaning a fission yield of 30 to 40 megatons thus far . To this must be added the 90 to 92 megatons of fission yield produced between the dawn of the atomic age in 1945 and the informal three-power test moratorium that began in November , 1958 .
And the tallying chant, the echo arous'd in my soul,
12:7 The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the
     was anything in my behaviour last night that did




48:16 Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; I have not spoken in secret
of his wrath.
great rushing, saying, Blessed be the glory of the LORD from his


104:31 The glory of the LORD shall endure for ever: the LORD shall
top of a tree. "You ought to know by this time that no good comes of


119:38 Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who is devoted to thy fear.
to the little circumstances which the same spots had witnessed
out of the grass and fern in which he had been lying, and his

bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized?  For a Khan of the
Let's kill him Boldly, but not Wrathfully:
people Israel, that thou teach them the good way wherein they should

royal pavilion over them.
O you and I! what is it to us what the rest do or think?
'It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
51:7 Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness, the people in whose
pulled their heads off, as a child does, it looks as if--"

more with him.
to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.

17:24 For as the lightning, that lighteneth out of the one part under
did not rain, and I must go; and so off I set; and I had not got
If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologist
1:14 And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and

10:29 And Moses said unto Hobab, the son of Raguel the Midianite,
faces, for I'm in a hurry.  Who is 'YOU KNOW WHO?'"

But the idea of any thing to be done in a _moment_, was increasing,
SKRIMSHANDER.  I sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be
two.
With majestic limbs and pious beaming eyes,

The student, boy or girl, led forward to be taught,
voice in the streets.
country, Go into the harlot's house, and bring out thence the woman,
Quite out their native language; and, instead, 
the Chinese being sent out of the Transvaal and the blocks being
chief fathers of the children of Israel: 36:2 And they said, The LORD
prosperous, but yet was almost sad. The man was a Norman, taller
husband intended to do for his sisters.  To take three
For one daughter, his eldest, he would really have given up any thing,
 So on he fares, and to the border comes 

31:4 Of every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel,
the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small
With hideous orifice gaped on us wide, 


place where we dwell with thee is too strait for us.
saved a great deal of money, and that she had left every penny of it to
practicable.  To proceed.

 What shall I call thee?
setteth forward, Aaron shall come, and his sons, and they shall take
remain unto the morning, then thou shalt burn the remainder with fire:
As was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the most
the tree as he could, and scratched the bark with his great claws. After
who had spoiled his fishing. So this morning he only went far enough to
us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground
10:5 Therefore the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem,
their son Frederick, and their two daughters Sophia and Marianne.  They
arterial system; and when this is heightened by the extraordinary
Does our society have a runaway , uncontrollable growth of technology which may end our civilization , or a normal , healthy growth ? ? Here there may be an analogy with cancer : we can detect cancers by their rapidly accelerating growth , determinable only when related to the more normal rate of healthy growth . Should the accelerating growth of technology then warn us ? ? Noting such evidence is the first step ; ; and almost the only `` cure '' is early detection and removal . One way to determine whether we have so dangerous a technology would be to check the strength of our society's organs to see if their functioning is as healthy as before . So an objective look at our present procedures may move us to consider seriously this possibly analogous situation . In any event , whether society may have cancer , or merely a virus infection , the `` disease '' , we shall find , is political , economical , social , and even medical . Have not our physical abilities already deteriorated because of the more sedentary lives we are now living ? ? Hence the prime issue , as I see it , is whether a democratic or free society can master technology for the benefit of mankind , or whether technology will rule and develop its own society compatible with its own needs as a force of nature . We are already committed to establishing man's supremacy over nature and everywhere on earth , not merely in the limited social-political-economical context we are fond of today . Otherwise , we go on endlessly trying to draw the line , color and other , as to which kind of man we wish to see dominate . We have proved so able to solve technological problems that to contend we cannot realize a universal goal in the immediate future is to be extremely shortsighted , if nothing else . We must believe we have the ability to affect our own destinies : otherwise why try anything ? ? So in these pages the term `` technology '' is used to include any and all means which could amplify , project , or augment man's control over himself and over other men . Naturally this includes all communication forms , e.g. languages , or any social , political , economic or religious structures employed for such control . Properly mindful of all the cultures in existence today throughout the world , we must employ these resources without war or violent revolution . If we were creating a wholly new society , we could insist that our social , political , economic and philosophic institutions foster rather than hamper man ; ; best growth . But we cannot start off with a clean slate . So we must first analyze our present institutions with respect to the effect of each on man's major needs . Asked which institution most needs correction , I would say the corporation as it exists in America today . At first glance this appears strange : of all people , was not America founded by rugged individualists who established a new way of life still inspiring `` undeveloped '' societies abroad ? ? But hear Harrison E. Salisbury , former Moscow correspondent of The New York Times , and author of `` To Moscow -- And Beyond '' . In a book review of `` The Soviet Cultural Offensive '' , he says , `` Long before the State Department organized its bureaucracy into an East-West Contacts Staff in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive within Soviet borders , the sharp cutting-edge of American culture had carved its mark across the Russian steppes , as when the enterprising promoters of ' Porgy And Bess ' overrode the State Department to carry the contemporary ' cultural warfare ' behind the enemy lines . They were not diplomats or jazz musicians , or even organizers of reading-rooms and photo-montage displays , but rugged capitalist entrepreneurs like Henry Ford , Hugh Cooper , Thomas Campbell , the International Harvester Co. , and David W. Griffith . Their kind created an American culture superior to any in the world , an industrial and technological culture which penetrated Russia as it did almost every corner of the earth without a nickel from the Federal treasury or a single governmental specialist to contrive directives or program a series of consultations of interested agencies . This favorable image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is still there despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda '' corporations now outmoded . Perhaps the public's present attitude toward business stems from the fact that the `` rugged capitalist entrepreneur '' no more exists in America . In his stead is a milquetoast version known as `` the corporation '' . But even if we cannot see the repulsive characteristics in this new image of America , foreigners can ; ; and our loss of `` prestige '' abroad is the direct result . No amount of ballyhoo will cover up the sordid facts . If we want respect from ourselves or others , we will have to earn it . First , let us realize that whatever good this set-up achieved in earlier times , now the corporation per se cannot take economic leadership . Businesses must develop as a result of the ideas , energies and ambitions of an individual having purpose and comprehensive ability within one mind . When we `` forced '' individuals to assume the corporate structure by means of taxes and other legal statutes , we adopted what I would term `` pseudo-capitalism '' and so took a major step toward socialism . The biggest loss , of course , was the individual's lessened desire and ability to give his services to the growth of his company and our economy . Socialism , I grant , has a definite place in our society . But let us not complain of the evils of capitalism by referring to a form that is not truly capitalistic . Some forms of capitalism do indeed work -- superb organizations , a credit to any society . But the pseudo-capitalism which dictates our whole economy as well as our politics and social life , will not stand close scrutiny . Its pretense to operate in the public interest is little more than a sham . It serves only its own stockholders and poorly at that . As a creative enterprise , its abilities are primarily in `` swallowing '' creative enterprises developed outside its own organization ( an ability made possible by us , and almost mandatory ) . As to benefits to employees , it is notorious for its callous disregard except where it depends on them for services . The corporation in America is in reality our form of socialism , vying in a sense with the other socialistic form that has emerged within governmental bureaucracy . But while the corporation has all the disadvantages of the socialist form of organization ( so cumbersome it cannot constructively do much of anything not compatible with its need to perpetuate itself and maintain its status quo ) , unluckily it does not have the desirable aspect of socialism , the motivation to operate for the benefit of society as a whole . So we are faced with a vast network of amorphous entities perpetuating themselves in whatever manner they can , without regard to the needs of society , controlling society and forcing upon it a regime representing only the corporation's needs for survival . The corporation has a limited , specific place in our society . Ideally speaking , it should be allowed to operate only where the public has a great stake in the continuity of supply or services , and where the actions of a single proprietor are secondary to the needs of society . Examples are in public utilities , making military aircraft and accessories , or where the investment and risk for a proprietorship would be too great for a much needed project impossible to achieve by any means other than the corporate form , e.g. constructing major airports or dams . Thus , if corporations are not to run away with us , they must become quasi-governmental institutions , subject to public control and needs . In all other areas , private initiative of the `` proprietorship '' type should be urged to produce the desired goods and services . Proprietorship Avoiding runaway technology can be done only by assuring a humane society ; ; and for this human beings must be firmly in control of the economics on which our society rests . Such genuine human leadership the proprietorship can offer , corporations cannot . It can project long-range goals for itself . Corporations react violently to short-range stimuli , e.g. , quarterly and annual dividend reports . Proprietorships can establish a unity and integrity of control ; ; corporations , being more amorphous , cannot . Proprietorships can establish a meaningful identity , representing a human personality , and thus establish sincere relationships with customers and community . Corporations are apt by nature to be impersonal , inhumane , shortsighted and almost exclusively profit-motivated , a picture they could scarcely afford to present to the public . The proprietor is able to create a leadership impossible in the corporate structure with its board of directors and stockholders . Leadership is lacking in our society because it has no legitimate place to develop . Men continuously at the head of growing enterprises can acquire experiences of the most varied , complicated and trying type so that at maturation they have developed the competence and willingness to accept the personal responsibility so sorely needed now . Hence government must establish greater controls upon corporations so that their activities promote what is deemed essential to the national interest . Proprietorships should get the tax advantages now accruing to corporations , e.g. the chance to accumulate capital so vital for growth . Corporations should pay added taxes , to be used for educational purposes ( not necessarily of the formal type ) . The right to leave legacies should be substantially reduced and ultimately eliminated . To perpetuate wealth control led by small groups of individuals who played no role in its creation prevents those with real initiative from coming to the fore , and is basically anti-democratic . When the proprietor dies , the establishment should become a corporation until it is either acquired by another proprietor or the government decides to drop it . Strikes should be declared illegal against corporations because disagreements would have to be settled by government representatives acting as controllers of the corporation whose responsibility to the state would now be defined against proprietorship because employees and proprietors must be completely interdependent , as they are each a part of the whole . Strikes threatening the security of the proprietorship , if internally motivated , prevent a healthy relationship . Certainly external forces should not be applied arbitrarily out of mere power available to do so . If we cannot stop warfare in our own economic system , how can we expect to abolish it internationally ? ? One kind of proprietorship These proposals would go far toward creating the economic atmosphere favoring growth of the individual , who , in turn , would help us to cope with runaway technology . Individual human strength is needed to pit against an inhuman condition . The battle is not easy . We are tempted to blame others for our problems rather than look them straight in the face and realize they are of our own making and possible of solution only by ourselves with the help of desperately needed , enlightened , competent leaders . Persons developed in today's corporations cannot hope to serve here -- a judgment based on experiences of my own in business and in activities outside . In my own company , in effect a partnership , although legally a corporation , I have been able to do many things for my employees which `` normal '' corporations of comparable size and nature would have been unable to do . Also , I am convinced that if my company were a sole proprietorship instead of a partnership , I would have been even abler to solve long-range problems for myself and my fellow-employees . Any abilities I may have were achieved in their present shape from experience in sharing in the growth and control of my business , coupled with raising my family . This combined experience , on a foundation of very average , I assure you , intelligence and background , has helped me do things many well-informed people would bet heavily against . Perhaps a list of some of the `` practices '' of my company will help here . The company grew out of efforts by two completely inexperienced men in their late twenties , neither having a formal education applicable to , or experience in , manufacturing or selling our type of articles . From an initial investment of $1,200 in 1943 , it has grown , with no additional capital investment , to a present value estimated by some as exceeding $10,000,000 ( we don't disclose financial figures to the public ) . Its growth continues steadily on a par with past growth ; ; and no limitation is in evidence . Our pin-curl clips and self-locking nuts achieved dominance in just a few years time , despite substantial , well established competition .
and proclaimed the name of the LORD.
CHAPTER 71
   Son. Then the Liars and Swearers are Fools: for there
inevitably as the sweetest songster of the grove; so, equally with
With feast and musick all the tents resound. 
wall, and this most buoyant thing within; there swims behind it all a
the window, and looked at your scotcher, brother, and he asked me if that
15:22 And they bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, being

floats on the whitened sea; the wooden poles of the spilled harpoons
and the thing be hid from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done
shall not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shall
The promise of the Father, who shall dwell 
"THAT'S SOMETHING," said Sir Arthur, as if he was pondering upon the
crying.
tribute of an hundred talents of silver, and a talent of gold.
Ere yet the salt of most vnrighteous Teares

of fools is in the house of mirth.
be so indispensably necessary to your future felicity.
22:30 And the ass said unto Balaam, Am not I thine ass, upon which
fine folks, or twenty other things.  There are trades enough, boy."

19:22 And the LORD shall smite Egypt: he shall smite and heal it: and

From Canaan to a land hereafter called 
husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and she
priest shall make an atonement for him, and he shall be clean.

is Oxford or Cambridge at the boat race.  If you think your creed

burdens grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens

officiating, soon poured them out brimmers all round.  One complained
Abiathar went up, until all the people had done passing out of the

necks.
of a wicked man as vigilant. We can't think of a wicked man who is
29:28 And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honour:
3:2 Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.
I can eat and sleep with them week in and week out.
And hands innumerable, scarce perform. 
engaging to think it all over while she was gone, the two young
tribulations, Stubb's tobacco smoke might have operated as a sort of

18:37 Then came Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, which was over the
old, having been the wife of one man.
attendants,
visit to Mrs. Jennings; the length of which, though never
27:8 And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a

30:26 Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee,
The high downs which invited them from almost every window
The love in the heart long pent, now loose, now at last tumultuously
That tend on mortall thoughts, vnsex me here,
sir, she bid me say, to look at; but, considering she has but one hand to
destruction.


He stopped.--Emma dared not attempt any immediate reply.  To speak,
certain wondrous, inverted visitation of one of those so called
For how calm, how solemn it grows to ascend to the atmosphere of lovers,
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

Off on the lakes the pike-fisher watches and waits by the hole in
dust.

I came out again upon gloom, which was half turned into
And boule the round Naue downe the hill of Heauen,
"The Colonel looks as grave as ever you see.  He knows
Let me a little shew it, euen in this:
"I thought I heard a clap of thunder," said Mary, "but why do you look so
passion; "and all for this nasty thing!" added she, pushing away the
the jaws of death into an easy chair.  What he thought of death

   Hora. You might haue Rim'd
posture.  Touched with compassion, Francisco approached him softly; his
fleets pursued that Leviathan, but only in the North and South
ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm sure I can't

6:7 And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the

abundance of exercise; always out of doors; though, it is true,
And fearefull, as these strange eruptions are
17:6 And he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a target of brass
congregation shall be established before me, and I will punish all
and of his certainly thinking it worth while to try to please her.
Apart from the pulling and hauling stands what I am,
wept sore.
I am convinced that he does not mean to throw himself away.


Said the Angel, who should better hold his place 
place, shall one carry forth without the camp; and they shall burn in
state between frost and thaw, which is of all others the most
to be the voice of Betsy Green, the postmaster's daughter, who lived in
15:25 Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with
to drive Mr. Elton from her thoughts.
36:33 The noise thereof sheweth concerning it, the cattle also


4:13 And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from



a dear friend of Mrs. Elton's--a neighbour of Maple Grove; and,
for herself!  She wanted me to nurse my cold by staying at home to-day,
"And yet two thousand a-year is a very moderate income,"
came, sin revived, and I died.
heaven did the LORD behold the earth;
As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in the mountains,

mad rockings of the gales.  And, when running into more sufferable
4:15 Take ye therefore good heed unto yourselves; for ye saw no manner
29:14 And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And
4:40 So they poured out for the men to eat. And it came to pass, as

Lady Middleton was equally pleased with Mrs. Dashwood.
his schemes; but as it was not the tyrannic influence of youth
To fade away like morning beauty from her mortal day:
who, after glancing his eye at the petitioner's well worn broom,

No longer walking in at all hours, as if ever willing to change
"Tha--nks," responded the Diamond in languid tones of affectation.
among torn iron-grey locks like mine.  I'll smoke no more--"
and Anne an extremely pretty girl, with gentleness, modesty, taste,
How often I question and doubt whether that is really me;
Very extraordinary!--And nobody knew at all which way he was gone.
what I can give them towards furnishing their house.
And these the gems of Heaven, her starry train: 
lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him.  All at once the
between Christ and Satan; that it was by Christ's own choice that
the coat-collar in which his head was buried made him look
Fulfill your pleasure. Liue a thousand yeeres,
presented themselves, or that they should have such frequent
eagerly, to Miss Somers; "and she and her mother heard you were looking
6:17 And the house, that is, the temple before it, was forty cubits

for nothing.  The simplicity and cheerfulness of her nature,
21:4 But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore: but
hasted away.

began somewhat drearily to row.
Among innumerable false, unmoved, 
is, that I am your fellow-prisoner.  I am to stay here till you give up.


12:30 And of the children of Ephraim twenty thousand and eight
that made them understand each other as readily and as quickly

"'Mr. Radney, I will not obey you.  Take that hammer away, or look to
forthwith opened all his seals and vials--devoting the ship and all
will suffer much, I am sure she will soon become easier.


me away is greater than the other that thou didst unto me. But he
of mine enemies: and awake for me to the judgment that thou hast

come--for she had just been saying to your brother, only five
they have sought out many inventions.

is any nature.  In the same way," continued Turnbull, "the human
said, Have ye not read so much as this, what David did, when himself
him come near and keep it; and he shall be as one that is born in the
THERE is somewhere in Brompton or Kensington an interminable avenue
the LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and
way indeed!--(Harriet could not recall it without a blush.) He seemed
148:4 Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above
he said, It is Elijah the Tishbite.
always told you I should be, the richest man of the two."

sheep was six hundred and threescore and fifteen.
Shocked as Captain Harville was, he brought senses and nerves


6:4 Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids.

the back seat with Henrietta and Louise; and I think it very likely
19:15 They that dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a
as a workshop for artists, but as a frail but finished work of art.
midst of thee; and thou shalt no more worship the work of thine hands.
indeed; one of them quite as large as Mrs. Goddard's drawing-room;
(for thou, even thou only, knowest the hearts of all the children of

thee in our trespasses: for we cannot stand before thee because of
The friend the lover's portrait, of whom his friend his lover was fondest,
Strict laws imposed, to celebrate his throne 
own; so that their first knowledge of a whaleman's career shall be
25:26 And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on

seizing his plentiful gift of fruit.  "Say what you please for me."
shalt not drink wine.
The comfort of such a friend at that moment as Colonel

back afore breakfast."
}  By Blue Ontario's Shore
into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, shall escape or remain, that
   Sold. Yeeld, or thou dyest

affectation of anger, he demanded from his daughter how she dared to
And after we will both our iudgements ioyne,
a very odd young man.  I do not know what he would be at.
To overcome in battle, and subdue 
21:14 This is now the third time that Jesus shewed himself to his
A shape within the watery gleam appeared, 

2:2 And many shall follow their pernicious ways; by reason of whom the
3:18 For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the

almost certain of ending there, where the rest of the day
laughter.
unto their fathers, and toward the city which thou hast chosen, and
off her long gloves and almost whistling.
and to determine her future household, before she set
With the multitude of my chariots I am come up to the height of the
to gaze curiously at each other, as if marvelling how it was that

house of the LORD, and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city.

1:47 And when Hadad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.


The two men took their swords.  Then MacIan said steadily: "Mr.
together to judgment.
After the cook had gone away and shut the door they stole softly back,
in private, to wish success to her friend, and yet
The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard's arm against the
Shimeah David's brother: and Jonadab was a very subtil man.
And now touch'd with the lives of other globes arrived as far along
and the goings out of it shall be at Hazarenan: this shall be your
Follow me. And he arose, and followed him.
A Station, like the Herald Mercurie
so long as it was that instant.  It was the same, of course,"
9:47 And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a child,

of thine anger; thou hast killed, and not pitied.
VI

smite them with the edge of the sword; he shall not spare them,
as it is this day; 25:19 Pharaoh king of Egypt, and his servants, and
that is (laughing affectedly) as far as I can presume to determine
fleeing unto one of these cities he might live: 4:43 Namely, Bezer in

book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua: for I will utterly put
and he was not without agitation.  It was not in his calmness that


"I am not in the British police," said Syme with insane calm.
and fourscore thousand hewers in the mountains; 5:16 Beside the chief
They were both atheists, with a depressing fixity of outlook

Subtle he needs must be, who could seduce 
the smoke rising from its peaked roof.  An old woman lives in this hovel,
and upward even unto fifty years old shalt thou number them, every one
rather crumpled by his side.  Before he could be lifted he was dead.
with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee.
Aliah, duke Jetheth, 1:52 Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon, 1:53
"You take my advice, Little Joe Otter," continued Grandfather Frog, "and

"Where is Marianne? Has she run away because we
nothing can.  Whatever he might have heard against me--

she could not determine.  After a good many compliments to Jane
for her friend.  Its tendency would be to raise and refine her mind--
whale-hunters.  They are fighting Quakers; they are Quakers with a
wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride,
Or racking whirlwinds, or for ever sunk 
future complaisance and companionableness to Mrs. Jennings
And take the young woman's hand and the young man's hand for the last time.
be cleft, as wax before the fire, and as the waters that are poured
little worth, and the round world itself but an empty cipher, except
49:7 None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God
trouble.

Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the
application of these two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my


comforted concerning the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, even
much less wicked.  But I hardly know--the misery that
"It is as long again as almost all we have had before."
exceeding wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the children that were
which were not dubious.

No, I would not be the means of giving them any pain.  My dear Emma,

a young unicorn.
or pleasures.  True, he had been an enemy, but he now professed
"That appears quite wonderful.  I was once very near--and I wish I had--
found for the damsel: 22:21 Then they shall bring out the damsel to
Marianne got up the next morning at her usual time;
"Who! why yourselves, and the Careys, and Whitakers
in the last moments of death.  It was what artists call a daffodil
its summit and look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take
The fiery surge that from the precipice 
haste, into a city of Juda; 1:40 And entered into the house of
  Mes. Blesse you faire Dame: I am not to you known,
at the pronunciation of certain words.  What do you think of it?"
"while so many of his brethren have fallen and been trodden under foot,
in the world.  He had seen Mrs Croft, too; she was at Taunton

the smoke of the city ascended up to heaven, and they had no power to
The married and unmarried children ride home to their Thanksgiving dinner,
me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing father beareth the sucking
him twenty and eight males.
the commandment of the LORD: and these are their journeys according to

things nowadays, and they all think they are right.  My uncle was

Her caution was thrown away.  Emma saw its artifice, and returned
thing with thee?  15:12 Why doth thine heart carry thee away? and what
And filter and fibre your blood.
hear thy words, but they do them not.
long suffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth.
look on the plague: and, behold, if the scall spread not, and there be
there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed

he trimmed his hair and beard, bought a good hat, clad himself in
Elinor first spoke.
to the engagement's becoming known; as, considering every thing,
with a large fortune, in love with him!  Sir Walter seemed to admit it
Leonora's sign nor Louisa's confusion, but continued showing off her

which, after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops;

than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise."'
house of Israel, and in the midst of them stood Jaazaniah the son of
as the latest interest had entirely borne down the first, so now
CHAPTER 68
came up from the washing; whereof every one bear twins, and none is
toward Absalom.
long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall

us, that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids gush out
temple of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the king, and
"Our elephant," said Syme, looking upwards, "has leapt into the

30:25 Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? was not my soul


  Son. As Birds do Mother
8:14 Make haste, my beloved, and be thou like to a roe or to a young
10:8 He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh an
had heard at Lady Diana Sweepstakes'--news which he thought would make
shall his brother's wife come unto him in the presence of the elders,
steering oar crouching almost double, in order to bring down his
And I with them the third Night kept the Watch,
habitation.
the atheist.  The police are after me; not for atheism but for
8:16 And the LORD said unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch out thy
once with the fleece; let it now be dry only upon the fleece, and upon
these ten years, and in another it is out of lease at this present time.
Divine interpreter! by favour sent 
"What?" said the hermit.



Fear to be worse destroyed! What can be worse 
    repress what would master him,
by your own feelings, your opinion would not be worth having."

sent two of his disciples, 11:3 And said unto him, Art thou he that
and the silver, and the garment, and the wedge of gold, and his sons,
shalt thou serve.
}  Over the Carnage Rose Prophetic a Voice
Signing for Soul and Body, set to them my name,

the LORD.
established now for any chance customer like you to injure."
such a spectralness over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea
9:21 Yea, forty years didst thou sustain them in the wilderness, so

It wafts you to a more remoued ground:

without shedding of blood is no remission.
the red and brown and golden sky.
mood, for he was, in his own mind, mounting to attack the solid



as a thing of course that they should dine with them.
her own.
LORD.
And part the Numbers:
The person he favors by day or sleeps with at night is blessed.

The little huts on the rafts, and the stream of smoke when they cook
following; which also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord,
1:17 Shall they therefore empty their net, and not spare continually
When I read the book, the biography famous,


Pray, Arthur, do you know whether your friend Maurice was born in England
on their summits, were a happy alternative when the dirt
the matter is irrelevant to my meaning.  I say that if you want an
their sacrifices shall be accepted upon mine altar; for mine house
whale-ship at sea.  The three mast-heads are kept manned from
   Little Lamb, who made thee?

thereof, and the doors thereof, with gold; and graved cherubims on the
a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea on this side Syria;
because she was jealous of her, and because she had injured her.  The

Hosanna; Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord: 11:10
3:55 I called upon thy name, O LORD, out of the low dungeon.
the moment--"I hope Mr. Knightley is well?"  He paused.--She coloured
a fair sister, whose name was Tamar; and Amnon the son of David loved
David, to enquire of his welfare, and to congratulate him, because he
"There!" cried Frederick, exulting, "now we shall see a philosopheress in
"And, in return for your acknowledging so much, I will do you the justice
and been talked to by his mother and all of them,
of Jacob and of Israel, What hath God wrought!  23:24 Behold, the
timber; and the horse that cropped the grass was, like his master,
were two people in it, Mr. Evan MacIan, panting and sweating, and
opinion of Mrs. Elton.  Her observation had been pretty correct.
there! side away to larboard--larboard gangway to starboard!
butler's grasp, without any stopper in it, he was involuntarily forced to
The smell of apples, aromas from crush'd sage-plant, mint, birch-bark,
garret and Dr. Bull sitting writing at a table, he remembered what
3:16 That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to
to their ringleaders; not reasonable, but implicit obedience.
And powr'd them downe before him
together, and the one vanquished the other.  I say I, myself, have
prophesied, saying, 1:68 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; for he

go to-morrow, fix themselves at the inn, or get into lodgings,
Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley
Weather-beaten vessels, landings, settlements, embryo stature and muscle,
15:12 And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we


This turn hath made amends; thou hast fulfilled 

Immense have been the preparations for me,
True appetite, and not disrelish thirst 
The evening came, the drawing-rooms were lighted up, the company assembled.
is so particularly fond of music that he could not help indulging
wave, much higher than any that he had seen.  Then he saw that it
look down from heaven.
Point this day, leaving all the rest, to us over all--and yet we know
of Levi according to their generations.
his wife's neck, or even in a picture.  He said, as you say, that
house of their fathers twelve rods: write thou every man's name upon
cup!  Thanks: here I refill; now, you pour out again.'
Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way unto you.
building of Ramah, and dwelt in Tirzah.
for the man was only a dark dot in the distance, and I could only just see

the married couples), there could have been no two hearts so open,

behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not

fool receive me, that I may boast myself a little.
are you perfectly sure that she has absolutely and downright
owed to my dearest friends--from openly shewing that I was


I come home to-night, for I'll be bringing the little Red Hen for
perish. "Don't blow me so, Wind," he cried, "let me down!"
Pursues me still, lest all I cannot die; 
     "Boulnois....  Boulnois, I say....  Boulnois did it...
it might be a fairy dancing with a pillar-box, or a peasant girl
There ponder'd, felt I,
Transcend his own so far; whose radiant forms, 
"I don't want the universe broken up just yet," drawled the
and impatient, heard a new noise in the mountains.  Even for him
Thunder on! stride on, Democracy! strike with vengeful stroke!
seat shuddering, in a palsy of passionate relief.
I am larger, better than I thought,


4:20 Erastus abode at Corinth: but Trophimus have I left at Miletum
the Lord GOD, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried
sent them into his vineyard.
and sickness and fear of that time, Margaret drove her cart of bread;
as it were through the archway of a house; as if the open sky
21:11 And the men of his city, even the elders and the nobles who were

engagement between them ever since October--formed at Weymouth,
 

of him as a good-humoured, well-meaning, respectable young man,

to let me get you a chair."
 
And when we seek, as now, thy gift of sleep. 
drawn for a militiaman; but when I thought how loth you and I would be to

Ammihud: of Manasseh; Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
time the former had come to enforcing vegetarianism, the latter had
upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's
6:34 Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall
He was silent and even pale for a moment, and then resumed--

That near him stood, and gave them thus in charge. 
   Polon. Marry, well said;
the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me.
do unto those that love thy name.
33:17 An horse is a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver
"Then I may make sure of you," said Mrs. Theresa; "for now it would be
22:1 Thou shalt not see thy brother's ox or his sheep go astray, and
Impress the air, and shows the mariner 
life-principle in him; this it was, that kept him a great part of the
In pious rage, the two delinquents teare,

20:4 Knowest thou not this of old, since man was placed upon earth,


Mahanaim with her suburbs, 6:81 And Heshbon with her suburbs, and


Miss Fairfax, who was still sitting at it, to play something more.
of the second order, and the keepers of the door, to bring forth out
a step till we get her advice; and she has appointed me to meet her about
His wish and best advantage, us asunder; 
he was man.  You cannot prove that God is better than a man; nor
house of Ahab: for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife: and he wrought
My acquaintance is so very extensive, that I have little doubt
and a tackle being rigged from aloft, they drag out these teeth, as
lifting the world, because I knew all the servants were out.
congregation of God, which Moses the servant of the LORD had made in
of receiving the information of your arrival in town,
good-hearted girl, and thoroughly attached to himself.
Answering his great idea.  Up he rode 
Abidan the son of Gideoni.
pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold,




dwell in our land.
on.  Placing these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he
defiled his neighbour's wife, 18:12 Hath oppressed the poor and needy,
the officers of the host, and said unto them, Have her forth without
trees all over with wonderful caps and coats of white. The Little Fir
saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, the chief prince
lost.  You know I am just come from Portsmouth, where I went to meet my
Lord.
years: 4:5 And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, and
countenance; and Bell teazed her maid till she got her to sew the long
concerning these blinds.  One voyager in Purchas calls them the
     Father Brown only nodded, and seemed still to be listening;
and not far from thinking it the very best thing that Frank could

I myself move abroad swift-rising flying then,
the river.
election time.  But I've done for ever with white lies.
bullock shall he carry forth without the camp unto a clean place,


I heere discard my sicknesse. Soule of Rome,

accumulation of the ostler's own knowledge, and the knowledge
English miles. ...
planteth an ash, and the rain doth nourish it.
Fail not to certify and cheer my soul.

Long there and then in vigil I stood, dimly around me the
in his other hand carried a basket of apples.  When they came within the

so Ahab did, in the end, a little respond to the playful allurings of
Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Zidonians, and went and
ears, therefore I will put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in thy
"'Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?' demanded their

flame, the Parsee was kneeling in Ahab's front, but with his head
bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'



to Mrs. Elton."
1:4 And with you there shall be a man of every tribe; every one head

Of Bacchus and his revellers, the race 
very nearly made a most shocking blunder in putting it all upon poor Lady
     "And what is that?"
   Pol. 'Tis most true:
never crossed his mind. First, it never occurred to him to doubt
and Mr. Frederick know that she was waiting tea for them.
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you


But I have every reason to believe that the food of the sperm
In his disturbance; when his darling sons, 
Destined to that good hour. No less rejoiced 
have rebelled against him; 9:10 Neither have we obeyed the voice of
in a good disguise, threatened the boy with his own sham
Hannathon: and the outgoings thereof are in the valley of Jiphthahel:
left hand, and shall sprinkle of the oil with his finger seven times
shalt thou serve their gods; for that will be a snare unto thee.
That Lucy had certainly meant to deceive, to go off
in the green room; but I never expected to see you dressed up
     3

wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar: 1:9 But his inwards

 when the meadows laugh with lively green,
Rosetta laughed at me the first time your father put a pencil into my
Yes my brother I know,
14:23 That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet, and



that is entertaining and profitable:  something that makes one
33:17 Yet the children of thy people say, The way of the Lord is not

16:41 And they shall burn thine houses with fire, and execute
49:8 Thus saith the LORD, In an acceptable time have I heard thee, and
strangers.
As at the world's great period; and our sire, 
She had given them neither men, nor names, nor places, that could
They followed him into his shiny wooden office where their
21:23 And out of the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh with her suburbs, Gibbethon
too worships fire; most faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the


and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet: 3:17
     7
felt like getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down
15:9 As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in
a more cheerless situation in itself than Mrs Smith's.  She had been
women bowed their heads in slumber; the little children crept to their
Discovering as much or more in a framer framing a house,
blindness.
In female sex, the more to draw his love, 
This is Old Age; but then, thou must outlive 
Now, the spouting canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it is
Israel; and go, serve the LORD, as ye have said.
middle.  "Well!" said Cecilia, eagerly, "who begins?"  Caroline, one of
Before his eyes appeared, sad, noisome, dark; 
From my face, from my forehead and lips,
30:13 Therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready to
To such a sodaine Flood of Mutiny:
Long I was hugg'd close--long and long.
"You are very obliging; but as to all that, I am very indifferent;
6:5 And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are:
Their noxious vapour; or, inured, not feel; 
when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding

decaying bronze, that were just bright enough to emphasise the
Anim, 15:51 And Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities with their
"This is a remarkably heavy cow," said the Elephant; "but I'll fetch
   Cassi. Then Brutus, I haue much mistook your passion,


three heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the
City of the world! (for all races are here,
 Their nature also to thy nature join; 
day of my trouble.
A numerous host; in strength each armed hand 
legs out just as far as he could, and that kept him from falling as fast
Something far away from a puny and pious life!
But while the imaginations of other people will carry
To whom thus Raphael answered heavenly meek. 
that God had done with them.
cried Bab; "I'll run in and get it all out of her in a minute."
cleansed.
14:15 The simple believeth every word: but the prudent man looketh
nakedness, and the kingdoms thy shame.
With what permissive glory since his fall 
'What size do you want to be?' it asked.

hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, 1:4 To an
for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
beard me in Denmarke? What, my yong Lady and Mistris?
But Little Joe just turned his back and went off down the Laughing Brook
And what are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?
57:7 My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give
great charm."
6:27 But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them
knowledge is with thee.
It was fixed at the throat rather in the way that nurses
terrific, to the dumb gloating of their aspect.  So that not the

book of the chronicles before the king.
intentions whatever of decision was wanting before; and he
The boy bowed, without any cringing servility, but with an open, decent
"Well, suppose I did?  What then?  I've part changed my flesh since

India-rubber ball and then stood grinning with his legs astride.

you are!  But I have just left Marianne in bed, and, I hope,
for longer confinement.  The child was to be kept in bed and amused

can't be such a blighted fool as all that.  Must you be going on?

and was acted upon.  A chaise was sent for from Crewkherne,
him; 7:2 To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by

LANTERNS BUSILY FILING THE IVORY JOIST FOR THE LEG, WHICH JOIST IS


to kill with a dagger than a sword."


(I see one building the house that serves him a few years, or
covered by the opaque and slatelike blue of night, when he
10:16 And they put away the strange gods from among them, and served

brethren unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned
as John will be, of our having every right that equal worth can give,
She had taken care to have the intelligence conveyed
Mrs. Jennings, in the meantime, talked on as loud

Theresa, ringing the bell.  "It is not late, and my man Christopher will
(almost the first they had heard since entering Lyme) drew half the party
him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man after that
I am the door of the sheep.
make for them yokes of iron.
"Stop, you blasted madmen!" he cried, at the top of a voice that
Lurking in hidden barbaric grim recesses,
No sooner was she out of sight, than Emma exclaimed,

15:22 Thou shalt eat it within thy gates: the unclean and the clean
works of God.


therefore destined in the end to moulder away with the living
But thou that revelest here--spirit that form'd this scene,
our life.
any thing she had ever felt before.  She was mortified,
    preparing,
that he left Prince Cherry in her hands.
they go a whoring after their gods, and do sacrifice unto their gods,
for either brother. She immediately felt how reasonable it was,
Macedonia supplied: and in all things I have kept myself from being
1:16 Do not err, my beloved brethren.
not upon us innocent blood: for thou, O LORD, hast done as it pleased
off his spectacles.
5:5 Then the angel that talked with me went forth, and said unto me,

man in plain clothes.
Gileadites.
the beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal with
That this may be a sign among you, that when your children ask their
the base, and jet-black as Yojo, the ebony idol of Queequeg.  And an
"Fifty thousand pounds, my dear.  Did you ever see

at first I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort
And know not that the King of Heaven hath doomed 
henceforth commit no more any such evil among you.
and set men by it for to keep them: 10:19 And stay ye not, but pursue
8:13 Thou that dwellest in the gardens, the companions hearken to thy
will be the inclination of my lord's friends to vote as he does, if he
"I forget," said Jem; "I think I have seen your face before, but I

Thirdly: Some eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J---, then
19:30 When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is
having no place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit all standing
waited upon me knew that it was the word of the LORD.
The bronchus and pulmonary artery in this lung type maintain a close relationship throughout . The pulmonary vein , however , without the limiting supportive tissue septa as in type 1 , , follows a more direct path to the hilum and does not maintain this close relationship ( figs. 8 , 22 ) . Another marked difference is noted here . The pulmonary artery , in addition to supplying the distal portion of the respiratory bronchiole , the alveolar duct , and the alveoli , continues on and directly supplies the thin pleura ( fig. 8 ) . The bronchial artery , except for a small number of short branches in the hilum , contributes none of the pleural blood supply . It does , as in type 1 , , supply the hilar lymph nodes , the pulmonary artery , the pulmonary vein , the bronchi , and the bronchioles -- terminating in a common capillary bed with the pulmonary artery at the level of the respiratory bronchiole . No bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses were noted in this group . Lung type 3 ( ( fig. 3 ) is to some degree a composite of types 1 , and 2 . It is characterized by the presence of incompletely developed secondary lobules ; ; well defined , but haphazardly arranged , interlobular septa and a thick , remarkably vascular pleura ( fig. 9 ) . The most distal airways are similar to those found in type 1 , , being composed of numerous , apparently true terminal bronchioles and occasional , poorly developed respiratory bronchioles ( figs. 14 , 15 ) . In this instance , because of incomplete septation , the secondary lobule does not constitute in itself what appears to be a small individual lung as in type 1 . Air-drifts from one area to another are , therefore , conceivable . Distally the bronchus is situated between a pulmonary artery on one side and a pulmonary vein on the other , as in type 1 ( ( fig. 24 ) . This relationship , however , is not maintained centrally . Here the pulmonary vein , as in type 2 , , is noted to draw away from the bronchus , and to follow a more direct , independent course to the hilum ( figs. 23 , 24 ) . The bronchial artery in its course and distribution differs somewhat from that found in other mammals . As seen in types 1 , and 2 , , it supplies the hilar lymph nodes , vasa vasorum to the pulmonary artery and vein , the bronchi and the terminal bronchioles . As in type 1 , , it provides arterial blood to the interlobular septa , and an extremely rich anastomotic pleural supply is seen ( figs. 9 , 10 ) . This pleural supply is derived both from hilar and interlobular bronchial artery branches . Such a dual derivation was strikingly demonstrated during the injection process where initial filling would be noted to occur in several isolated pleural vessels at once . Some of these were obviously filling from interlobular branches of the bronchial arteries while others were filling from direct hilar branches following along the pleural surface . With completion of filling , net-like anastomoses were noted to be present between these separately derived branches . An unusual increase in the number of bronchial arteries present within the substance of the lung was noted . This was accounted for primarily by the presence of a bronchial artery closely following the pulmonary artery . The diameter of this bronchial artery was much too large for it to be a mere vasa vasorum ( figs. 16 , 23 , 24 ) . In distal regions its diameter would be one-fourth to one-fifth that of the pulmonary artery . This vessel could be followed to the parenchyma where it directly provided bronchial arterial blood to the alveolar capillary bed ( figs. 17 , 18 ) . Also three other direct pathways of alveolar bronchial arterial supply were noted : via the pleura ; ; through the interlobular septa ; ; and along the terminal bronchiole ( figs. 14 , 17 , 18 , 19 ) . One bronchial arteriolar-pulmonary arteriolar anastomosis was noted at the terminal bronchiolar level ( fig. 26 ) . Discussion It is evident that many marked and striking differences exist between lungs when an inter-species comparison is made . The significance of these differences has not been studied nor has the existence of corresponding physiologic differences been determined . However , the dynamics of airflow , from morphologic considerations alone , may conceivably be different in the monkey than in the horse . The volume and , perhaps , even the characteristics of bronchial arterial blood flow might be different in the dog than in the horse . Also , interlobular air drifts may be all but nonexistent in the cow ; ; probably occur in the horse much as in the human being ; ; and , in contrast , are present to a relatively immense degree on a segmental basis in the dog where lobules are absent ( Van Allen and Lindskog , '31 ) . A reason for such wide variation in the pulmonary morphology is entirely lacking at present . Within certain wide limits anatomy dictates function and , if one is permitted to speculate , potential pathology should be included in this statement as well . For example , the marked susceptibility of the monkey to respiratory infection might be related to its delicate , long alveolar ducts and short , large bronchioles situated within a parenchyma entirely lacking in protective supportive tissue barriers such as those found in types 1 , and 3 . One might also wonder if monkeys are capable of developing bronchiolitis as we know it in man or the horse . In addition , it would be difficult to imagine chronic generalized emphysema occurring in a cow , considering its marked lobular development but , conversely , not difficult to imagine this occurring in the horse or the dog . Anatomically , the horse lung appears to be remarkably like that of man , insofar as this can be ascertained from comparison of our findings in the horse with those of others ( Birnbaum , '54 ) in the human being . The only area in which one might find major disagreement in this matter is in regard to the alveolar distribution of the bronchial arteries . As early as 1858 , Le Fort claimed an alveolar distribution of the bronchial arteries in human beings . In 1951 , this was reaffirmed by Cudkowicz . The opposition to this point of view has its staunchest support in the work of Miller ( '50 ) . Apparently , however , Miller has relied heavily on the anatomy in dogs and cats , and he has been criticized for using pathologic human material in his normal study ( Loosli , '38 ) . Although Miller noted in 1907 that a difference in the pleural blood supply existed between animals , nowhere in his published works is it found that he did a comparative study of the intrapulmonary features of various mammalian lungs other than in the dog and cat ( Miller , '13 ; ; '25 ) . The meaning of this variation in distribution of the bronchial artery as found in the horse is not clear . However , this artery is known to be a nutrient vessel with a distribution primarily to the proximal airways and supportive tissues of the lung . The alveoli and respiratory bronchioles are primarily diffusing tissues . Theoretically , they are capable of extracting their required oxygen either from the surrounding air ( Ghoreyeb and Karsner , '13 ) or from pulmonary arterial blood ( Comroe , '58 ) . Therefore , an explanation of this alveolar bronchial artery supply might be the nutritive requirement of an increased amount of supportive tissue , not primarily diffusing in nature , in the region of the alveolus . If this be true , the possibility exists that an occlusive lesion of the bronchial arteries might cause widespread degeneration of supportive tissue similar to that seen in generalized emphysema . One would not expect such an event to occur in animals possessing lungs of types 1 , or 2 . The presence of normally occurring bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses was first noted in 1721 by Ruysch , and thereafter by many others . Nakamura ( '58 ) , Verloop ( '48 ) , Marchand , Gilroy and Watson ( '50 ) , Von Hayek ( '53 ) , and Tobin ( '52 ) have all claimed their normal but relatively nonfunctional existence in the human being . Miller ( '50 ) is the principal antagonist of this viewpoint . In criticism of the latter's views , his conclusions were based upon dog lung injection studies in which all of the vascular channels were first filled with a solution under pressure and then were injected with various sized colored particles designed to stop at the arteriolar level . As early as 1913 Ghoreyeb and Karsner demonstrated with perfusion studies in dogs that bronchial artery flow would remain constant at a certain low level when pressure was maintained in the pulmonary artery and vein , but that increases in bronchial artery flow would occur in response to a relative drop in pulmonary artery pressure . Berry , Brailsford and Daly in 1931 and Nakamura in 1958 reaffirmed this . Our own studies in which bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses were demonstrated , were accomplished by injecting the bronchial artery first with no pressure on the pulmonary artery or vein , and then by injecting the pulmonary artery and vein afterwards . It is distinctly possible , therefore , that simultaneous pressures in all three vessels would have rendered the shunts inoperable and hence , uninjectable . This viewpoint is further supported by Verloop's ( '48 ) demonstration of thickened bronchial artery and arteriolar muscular coats which are capable of acting as valves . In other words , the anastomoses between the bronchial artery and pulmonary artery should be considered as functional or demand shunts . In addition , little work has been done on a comparative basis in regard to the normal existence of bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses . Verloop ( '48 ; ; '49 ) found these shunts in the human being but was unable to find them in rats . Ellis , Grindlay and Edwards ( '52 ) also were unable to find them in rats . Nakamura ( '58 ) was unable to demonstrate their existence , either by anatomic or physiologic methods , in dogs . The possibility that the absence or presence of these shunts is species-dependent is therefore inferred . Certainly , the mere fact of failing to demonstrate them in one or another species does not conclusively deny their existence in that species . It is , however , highly suggestive and agrees well with our own findings in which we also failed to demonstrate normally occurring bronchial artery-pulmonary artery shunts in certain species , especially the dog . In conclusion , these findings suggest the need for a comparative physiology , pathology , and histology of mammalian lungs . In addition , a detailed interspecies survey of the incidence of generalized pulmonary emphysema in mammals would be interesting and pertinent . Also , for the present , great caution should be exercised in the choice of an experimental animal for pulmonary studies if they are to be applied to man . This is especially so if the dog , cat or monkey are to be used , in view of their marked anatomical differences from man . Finally , it is suggested that in many respects the horse lung may be anatomically more comparable to that of the human than any other presently known species . Summary The main subgross anatomical features of the lungs of various mammals are presented . A tabulation of these features permits the lungs to be grouped into three distinctive subgross types . Type 1 , is represented by the cow , sheep , and pig ; ; type 2 , , by the dog , cat , and monkey ; ; type 3 , , by the horse . Lobularity is extremely well developed in type 1 ; ; absent in type 2 ; ; imperfectly developed in type 3 . The pleura and interlobular septa are thick in types 1 and 3 . The pleura is extremely thin in type 2 and septa are absent . Arterial supply to the pleura in types 1 and 3 is provided by the bronchial artery , and in type 2 , by the pulmonary artery . In types 1 , 2 and 3 the bronchial artery terminates in a capillary bed shared in common with the pulmonary artery at the level of the distal bronchiole . In type 3 the bronchial artery also provides blood directly to the alveolar capillary bed . True terminal bronchioles comprise the most frequent form taken by the distal airways in types 1 and 3 , although small numbers of poorly developed respiratory bronchioles are present . Well developed respiratory bronchioles , on the other hand , appear to be the only form taken by the distal airways in type 2 . In type 1 the pulmonary vein closely follows the course of the bronchus and the pulmonary artery from the periphery to the hilum . This may be due to the heavy interlobular connective tissue barriers present . In type 3 , this general relationship is maintained peripherally but not centrally where the pulmonary vein follows a more independent path to the hilum as is the case throughout the lung in type 2 .

I read it half through before I broke the window."

James Turnbull made a little step backward, and for the first
painfully down the slope.  The first to sit up was the little priest,
How could he have found out?  I had stolen the thing suddenly and on impulse;
hereabouts!
1:7 He hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig tree: he hath made
She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited
half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by
with all that she had said on the subject.
of the Sword. I wore my sword because the Tortoise came wearing his coat
17:22 And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
MacIan looked down at the rows of tins and bottles, and the cloud
'Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit blew three
4:24 And it came to pass by the way in the inn, that the LORD met him,
of her own life.
Casts pale and dreadful? Thither let us tend 
we have received grace and apostleship, for obedience to the faith

lit, as by a few stars, by the sparks of what were alleged to be
     His garrulity was an instant arrested; for lifting his eyes,
and thought it would be quite a misfortune to have the existing connection
with emotion.
be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man; 3:17 That
moment empty. Then he realised (in some odd way) that the silence
2:1 Say ye unto your brethren, Ammi; and to your sisters, Ruhamah.

CHAPTER XVIII
people and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall have peace; whereas the sword


5:7 Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the nobles, and the

the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.


Nazareth.
have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.
happy boys would be climbing there. Then his carriage took a turn
is the gall of asps within him.

horse-collar; and suddenly felt a slight scratch.  Throwing aside the
searchingly eyeing every man of his crew.  But those wild eyes met
     They took leave of Father Brown at the corner of the road,
20:23 For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against the

Of easy thorough-fare.  Therefore, while I 
1:7 Jerusalem remembered in the days of her affliction and of her
whale like their great patron), let them never eye a Nantucketer with
their tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms.  So omnipotent
dislike idleness, and to wish that they could be useful.
and, that being by the sea, always makes him feel young again.
Behind them, while the obdurate king pursues: 
which in many shapes he had had through the whole adventure, the
O throat! O throbbing heart!
and in her character she believed a very dangerous companion;
11:40 Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. And Jeroboam arose,
men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech: 9:24 That the
    journey,
In such a situation as that, where there seemed nothing
land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your

And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the
last night, ma'am."

common sense.  "I am sure I don't want to protect criminals or go

received in the back, as roused the most alarming ideas.
13:16 Then Paul stood up, and beckoning with his hand said, Men of
39:4 And it came to pass, that when Zedekiah the king of Judah saw
he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood:
He got to Queen's Square about three o'clock.  The door was opened by a
brother, and bringeth them up into an high mountain apart, 17:2 And

too frightful to see.
but walked away quickly, without looking again at her lamb.  Her little

temporary steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the

ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of God.
dreadful banner of defeat.
lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my lord.

artificial in him to bend slightly to this solemn apparition or

Yet chains in Hell, not realms, expect:  Mean while 
 
of red and white marble, and flights of steps, are seen in different


lawns, and the flaming flower-beds, the two realized, not without
"Not I," said the Goose.
to his proposition of Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Smith making
That we finde out the cause of this effect,
knew not that I healed them.
they may be to do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation;
shewed them that tea was over, and the instrument in preparation;--

In vain Cecilia ran to the rest of her companions, to display her
No such importation of novelties could enrich their intellectual stores
to Mizpah; and there they did eat bread together in Mizpah.
who hired out glasses to the boys who sold lemonade.  Piedro knew that it
passable for adventurous people, but in a state that admitted no delay,


Jane Fairfax was very elegant, remarkably elegant; and she had

"Hold hard!"
the midst of thee them that rejoice in thy pride, and thou shalt no
I leave the world, and go to the Father.

the final blow.  The blow fell at dinner; and the old librarian said

he lies there in the garden dead of his own jealousy to produce jealousy,
not long before he saw it to be _Dixon_.  Jane Fairfax's perception
Whispering I love you, before long I die,
   Ham. Then will I come to my Mother, by and by:
My love for Mr. and Mrs. Weston gives me a decided prejudice in
consequently of great value.  Caroline also found out that many of the
wrote to me again, you know, the very next morning.
Mouse hurried as fast as he could down the last stairs, and pushed
Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up from
a branch of criminal science.  Every one of those knots he has
"That's not what I would have done in your place," replied the old woman.
Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his
"Only in that sense I speak of," replied Syme; "or if you prefer
sight be not deeper than the skin, and the hair thereof be not turned
needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken

winter, neither on the sabbath day: 24:21 For then shall be great
Whose virtue for of good still good proceeds, 
Death's harbinger: Sad talk!yet argument 
come from forward.  "Will you look at that kannakin, sir; smell of
The lustrious orb, Venus contralto, the blooming mother,
on board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers
comfortless veranda, or even notice through the misty glasses
eat and drink, and to be drunken; 12:46 The lord of that servant will

than I was before?--My intentions were not always wrong.
break down their altars, he shall spoil their images.
    But said I could not swim.
Foremost! century marches! Libertad! masses!

upon him.
   Cin. Caska, you are the first that reares your hand
dishonourest thou God?  2:24 For the name of God is blasphemed among
a bluff-bowed sluggish galliot into a sharppointed New York
thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink
priests; 19:2 And go forth unto the valley of the son of Hinnom, which
honest and industrious orphans.  Mr. Harvey desired that Mary and her
she likes to have them in this box:  I bought some for her in it
she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold,
brass upon his head; also he armed him with a coat of mail.
and fifty-two dozen?"
curiosity to know where she would be buried.  Goldsmith tells us,

how I could be so off my guard.  If Jane does not get well soon,
"I did," said Elinor, with a composure of voice,
would have been glad to command, and ought not to have failed of.
       And yet she doesn't care.
present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs.  Who can show a
kindly collapse.
shalt set aside that which is full.
With what delight could I have walked thee round, 
also begged that their father, who was well acquainted with Mr. Harvey,

As with new wine intoxicated both, 
Not mind us not offending, satisfied 
9:32 Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the

who must be pleased, and who (between ourselves) are sometimes

but a joke--that notion could find no crack in his great skull
Rise after rise bow the phantoms behind me,
the point of coming contact, any merely hard substance, like iron or
of surprising Bell would be utterly lost if one bit of the filigree
19:14 House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: and a prudent
me in the dark.
when they returned into the house; and if he could have thought
Charles, Mary, and Henrietta all came in.

Mr. Woodhouse hesitated.--"Not near so often, my dear, as I could wish."

25:21 Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this
Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.
are these, my lord?  6:5 And the angel answered and said unto me,

Marianne had left the room before the conversation began.
"Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man."
Beyond the light, lighter than light,
"I had a dream," said MacIan, "in which I saw the cross erect and
Israel, saying, Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of the
from his neighbour.
them. And all the people shall say, Amen.
down, please?" he said, quite calmly, like on stopping an
horse there would be some chance, but _walk_ all that way? No, thank
hand of the avenger of blood, until he stood before the congregation.


Repeat at Jerusalem, place the notice high on jaffa's gate and on


 
By what is past, to thee I have revealed 
shalt die.
of the basket upon my head.
  Brut. I haue beene vp this howre, awake all Night:
frock-coats and hats. The principals saluted. The Colonel said
two notches at its extremities.  This done, he marshalled the planks
Unimpressed , the dog plopped on the sand . Quint couldn't blame Maggie for disbelieving . For eleven days they'd done the same thing , leaving the cottage quietly before breakfast , before Esperanza Beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards . The swirling sand made Quint's limp more pronounced . They walked slowly past the sherbet-colored cottages -- eleven lemon , nine mint , seven orange -- around the curve to a deserted stand with an `` Eats '' sign jiggling in the wind . Now they were in friendly territory . Nobody around . Nothing but sand and a ridge of rocks sloping jaggedly to the water's edge . His rock was to the right of a V-shaped inlet , a big , brown , lumpy rock trailing seaweed whiskers . His rock was special because no one on the beach could see him here . Here he was enclosed and safe . ( If a dragon or a sea monster came along , didn't he have a red Swiss hunting knife on his belt -- ten blades and a corkscrew ? ? ) Here was a perfect place to lie down and make believe . He was Canute controlling the waves . He was a knight of the Round Table , `` Sir Quintus the Brave '' , slaying evil spirits and banshees and vampires and witches with warty noses . ( One good thing about a suit of armor , his leg wouldn't show . ) He was the first astronaut on the moon , chosen because of his small size and intrepid nature . He was six feet one like his father , with big hands and a hairy chest , a man the weak and persecuted would turn to . Fearless . Every night when he wanted a drink of water , didn't he practice being fearless by not turning on the bathroom light ? ? A dark bathroom can be pretty scary , and he'd creep back to bed , proud of himself , thinking : Tomorrow , for sure , I'll go down to the rock and keep my promise to Dad . He hadn't intended to make the promise . It happened two weeks ago , the night before his father left on a business trip to South America . Every piece of the nightmare was clear , in place ; ; and when he woke up , his father was saying , `` Stop screaming , Quint . It's all right . Stop shaking '' . He could remember the feel of his father's big hands , the thump of his father's heart sending out signals -- regular , like radar . `` Let's talk about the beach . Son . While I'm gone you get brown and fat as a pig , hear ? ? Look , I can put two fingers between the cords in the back of your neck . Dr. Fortman says swimming would help your leg . He says you're limping more than you need to '' . `` How does he know ? ? Big dumb nut . He never had polio '' . In the light from the bedside table his father looked so worried that the promise spilled out . `` You just wait , Dad . When you get back I'll probly be swimming better than Victoria . Wait and see , Dad '' . Victoria was fourteen months younger than Quint , a head taller , and could lick any boy or girl on the beach . He called her `` Fatso '' . She called him `` Stuck-up -- that's why nobody plays with you , Mister Stuck-up '' . Or , what was worse , she prayed for him out loud at bedtime : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' . `` She's got a nerve '' . Quint said now to the clouds . Strength began to zip up and down his chest . He felt strong as a giant . He unlaced his high brown shoes and took off the metal brace on his leg . He wadded his sweat shirt into a ball and stripped down to his swimming trunks . `` Goolick , goooolick '' , creaked a sea gull . `` Aw , shut up '' , he said . He stood on the rock , a skinny , dignified boy surrounded by the ocean . The wind bored a hole between his shoulder blades , and when he looked at the choppy waves coming and going and crossing each other he could see his head down there , bleeding , wedged between the rocks and the waves . I can't go in . I'm scared of the nightmare . Shivering , he put on his clothes . And shivering with shame , he crawled to the narrow end of the rock and spat into the water . `` Watch it , big shot '' , a hoarse voice yelled back . She was holding on to his rock with one hand . She smelled of peppermints . She wore a bathing suit like his mother's , no straps on the shouders . `` Why didn't you duck '' ? ? He snapped . `` This is my rock '' . `` Isn't '' . `` Is '' . `` Isn't '' . `` Is '' . She was sore as a boil . `` Ever hear of squatter's rights '' ? ? `` Sure . They started with the Kansas-Nebraska Bill of eighteen '' -- `` Mister Big Britches , aren't you '' ? ? `` I'm Mark Gordon Peters the Fifth . They call me Quint '' . `` Then why don't you stop squinting '' ? ? `` I said Quint . That's short for Quintus . Quintus in Latin means '' -- `` I can speak both kinds of Latin , smart aleck '' . Her cough sounded like cloth ripping . `` You shouldn't smoke so much '' , he said , unconsciously imitating Victoria's holier-than-thou voice . `` I don't smoke '' . She was horrified . `` Do you '' ? ? `` Hell , yes '' . Not having said `` hell '' before , he stumbled a bit before gathering momentum . `` Sometimes eleven , fourteen a day '' . `` If I was your mama , I'd wop your tail off '' . `` My mother never wops me . I've got this leg brace '' . She seemed so unimpressed that he was obliged to roll up his blue jeans so she could see his brace . `` Dingy-looking '' , was what she said . `` Why don't you paint it red and white like a barber pole '' ? ? `` Because maybe I won't have to wear it always . Dr. Fortman says if I exercise my leg more , maybe I can use a cane when I'm big '' . She spouted a mouthful of water into the air . `` A cane's mighty handy . Someone's walking past , you want to stop him , zoooop , snag him around the neck with the crook in your cane . Or say a waiter brings you a bowl of soup with a dead fly in it -- all you got to do is bannnnnng , stooooomp your cane on the floor . Hey , will you look at that '' ? ? Maggie had shaken himself awake and was licking the sand off his stubby whiskers and his long plume of a tail . `` That's some dog . What kind '' ? ? `` Part collie , part wire-haired terrier '' . Quint glared . He always did when people asked . `` Holy mackerel , that's the most unique dog I ever saw '' , she said firmly . `` His real name's DiMaggio , only we call him Maggie because he has to take tranquilizers . He's braver than he looks . He's been sick lately . Last Tuesday he went on a ham jag '' . `` A what '' ? ? He would have told her , but Victoria was yodeling . That meant `` Mama wants you Quint . Come home or I'll come find you '' . `` I gotta go . Even though this is my rock , you can use it sometimes . I come early in the morning '' . `` So do I . See you around , Mister Squint '' . That was how they started being friends . They met next morning and all the mornings thereafter . Same time , early , before the fog burned off , because she didn't like the sun ; ; it made her blister . Her name was Sabella , and the strip of seaweed around her neck was an emerald necklace the King gave her as a token of his undying love . `` You going to marry the King '' ? ? `` No . He's got a long beard and picks his teeth with a fork . My hair is what he's nuts about . Naturally curly hair runs in my family . Personally , I prefer straight hair like yours , but as they say on the Continent , ' What can one do ' '' ? ? `` Which continent '' ? ? `` Name one , I been there '' . Japan , she said , smelled pugh because people let dead fish lie on the beaches till the fish got hard as rocks ; ; then they scraped off the mold and made fish soup . Pugh . Camels in Tripoli had harelips . Near Galway the tinkers drove their caravans down to the beach and sang and drank and fought all night . As for dancing -- holy mackerel , he ought to see the gypsies in Jerez ; ; they danced on the sand till your blood got hot and danced with them . `` Really '' . Quint smothered a yawn . She made better pictures than any book he'd read , but he didn't say so . Artfully , as the days went by , he found occasion to tell her that his father had won the Navy Cross in the Korean War ; ; that his baby sister could spit up through her nose when she felt like it ; ; that he personally had an IQ of 141 and was currently reading the Mushr to Ozon volume of the encyclopedia . `` Books are for schnooks '' . She skipped a piece of water at him and laughed , a funny , hoarse laugh he liked to hear . Nobody ever appreciated his jokes as much as Sabella . ( `` What did one tonsil say to the other tonsil ? ? Let's get dressed up -- the doctor's taking us out tonight '' . And `` What time did the Chinaman go to the dentist ? ? Tooth-hurty '' . ) Encouraged by her giggles he imitated Maggie who was crazy about ham . He described the ham decorated with pineapple and cherries , cooling on the porch . He snuck up on the ham like Maggie , gumming it with soft , stumpy teeth , then panting with thirst , lapping up the water in the lagoon , swelling up like a balloon , staggering home to be sick , while his mother said , `` That does it . That dog has to go '' . `` Say , you're quite a comic '' , Sabella said admiringly . `` Ever thought about going on the stage '' ? ? He hadn't . But it was such a nice thought that he nodded his head . `` Either that or a veterinarian '' . `` Better make up your mind , son '' , Sabella said . `` You can't serve cod and salmon '' . Sometimes they argued . She said sharks have no bones and shrimp swam backward . His encylopedia agreed with Sabella . Next morning he tied a bunch of sea daisies with string and threw them across the V-shaped inlet to the rock where she was swimming around . Boy , could she catch ! ! Like Willie Mays in the outfield . `` Nobody gave me flowers before . Thank you , Quint '' . Her face turned pink with pleasure and a smothered cough . `` You can always tell a real gentleman -- they got a certain je ne say quok '' . Sometimes they didn't talk at all . He daydreamed on the rock while she swam and splashed around . Once when she asked why he never went swimming and he answered , `` Don't feel like it '' , he was tempted to tell her about being scared . But Victoria began yodeling just then and he went home , carrying Sabella in the back of his head , not thinking about her , just knowing she was there , smiling , smelling of peppermints . As for his promise -- oh , he had plenty of time , buckets of time . Wednesday morning it happened . They were eating breakfast . `` We beseech thee , Lord Gord , to bless this food '' -- that was Victoria saying grace while the baby sprayed raisin toast on her plastic bib . Same old breakfast till the phone rang , making his mother's voice shake with excitement . `` Your Daddy's in San Francisco '' , she told them . `` He says he'll be here on the one-o'clock plane . Fifteen days early -- isn't that wonderful '' ? ? `` Yeah , keen '' . A cave seemed to be opening in Quint's stomach . `` Children , we'll have to get organized . The baby can have an early nap . Victoria , I want you to -- '' Quint closed the screen door quietly so Maggie wouldn't be scared . `` Hurry up , we're late '' , he said , noticing with a chill how gray the sky was this morning , the fog like a rope along the horizon , the choppy waves sending off sheets of blue and Kool-Aid green . The cave in his stomach hurt . He had to go into the water . He'd tell Sabella about the nightmare . It had started two years ago when he was in an iron lung . What caused it , he didn't know . The metal collar gagging his neck ? ? Sweating so much ? ? The unbearable weight on his chest ? ? All of it together meant drowning . The first time the nurse took him out of the lung , she said if he got frightened , she'd put him back for a second .

and much more than a prophet.
trees.
shadowed forth.  The Hindoo whale referred to, occurs in a separate
lovely song. It was so sweet and so loud that the whispers died quite
of Zin; because ye sanctified me not in the midst of the children of

Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, even

afraid of him, aware that he sees through her, and not daring to proceed
"No, I don't," he said; "but I suppose that if you were serious
good warm great-coat very much."

In every state of practical, busy movement, the rills of civilization,
in the LORD's house.
and the earth was reaped.
tribute, and that upon our lands and vineyards.

Assaulting; others from the wall defend 
Tube, Epping Forest, Westminster Abbey, rolled up in carpets at

Exit, nightfall, and soon the heart-thud stopping.
should go to Bridewell now, than to the gallows by-and-by."

like other men.


from before thee: for they have provoked thee to anger before the
When Charlemain with all his peerage fell 
were stealing upon you from behind.  In a word, you would have two
at Randalls.  He was satisfied of there being no present danger in
topography of a quite unrecognizable kind.  The singer's step was
excellent Play; well digested in the Scoenes, set downe

the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth,
 They rise upon clouds, and sport in the wind;
stone.
presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.

Within me zones, seas, cataracts, forests, volcanoes, groups,
whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honourable of


about Emma, Mr. Knightley."
Ending my vigil strange with that, vigil of night and battle-field dim,

Anne always contemplated them as some of the happiest creatures
leaping over the bulwarks.  Wave after wave thus leaps into the ship,
particular to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a
all the jurymen are back in their proper places--ALL,' he repeated with
securing her affection.  And there was time enough for Emma to form a
from twenty years old and above, and found them three hundred thousand
49:20 The children which thou shalt have, after thou hast lost the
advance--as the whale sometimes will--and Ahab was fairly within the
vintage of the wicked.
Gregory as I would set myself against all the Governments of
ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM EBOOKS
     To set thee free and bear thee home,

"He is a man," said Lady Russell, "whom I have no wish to see.
    amanuenses?
dinner by their sudden reverse, from eating much;--
There burst and fell into his private room a man in the filthiest rags,
you try any more of your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye."


Having pried through the strata, analyzed to a hair, counsel'd with
26:4 I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with
vessels of gold, and raiment, harness, and spices, horses, and mules,
    the dead I loved so well,
"No more, Queequeg," said I, shuddering; "that will do;" for I knew

and if Elinor would ever condescend to anticipate enjoyment,
before the LORD.
Once a queen, now lean and tatter'd seated on the ground,
slightly suspicious, he said: "I say, don't think me rude--but
had to say.
27:6 Of the oaks of Bashan have they made thine oars; the company of

trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled their

yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.

the temple: whom we took, and would have judged according to our law.
10:10 If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must he
I suppose, and speaking as loud as he could!--How can you imagine
Forsake me not thus, Adam! witness Heaven 
"The head of the asylum has settled it all," said Dr. Quayle,

upon its advancing prow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam.
6:33 Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of

killed by a whale in the Pacific ocean, no less than forty years
about Lady Russell's temples had long been a distress to him.

but she had the pleasure of getting rid of Mr Elliot; and she did not mean,
to read steadily; he betrayed no consciousness of the fact that
try-works.
which thy fathers have laid up in store until this day, shall be
"What nonsense," and the orator paused for a synonymous expression, but
the whole substance of Jane Fairfax's letter, she had been able
Not the right only justified, what we call evil also justified.
wood-cutter entered into their plans, not with the vague servility

They have no wine.

Brandon will be jealous, if she does not take care."
of Levi were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Issachar were
her to be, as she repeatedly declared herself, one of
denounce unto you this day, that ye shall surely perish, and that ye
That fled the Snares of watchfull Tyranny,
the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me,
shifted his seat sharply--making an isolated and echoing noise--

Tempting, affronts us with his foul esteem 
4:20 The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of the LORD, was taken
'All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly,
round the corner by the Hotel Saint Louis, where they got out,
This wretched note was the finale of Emma's breakfast.  When once

that, even if we were criminals, we are not lunatics in any legal



said.
of this hand--a lipless, unfeatured blank.  Ahab is for ever Ahab,
the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach
And henceforth I will not deny them--for how can I deny myself?
acquainted with her," said Emma, "nothing I suppose can be known.


which almost admitted it, he began to think that some time or other--
Dazzling the moon; these to the bower direct 
wickedness.
It was not in expectation of being praised for it, that Laura had been
Then herbs of every leaf, that sudden flowered 
Have you not imported this or the spirit of it in some ship?

He was a young man, born in the Bay of Arisaig, opposite Rum and

and for to shed innocent blood, and for oppression, and for violence,
     4
for everybody will hear you."
an house in, that my name might be there; neither chose I any man to
any commercial products without permission.
Judah into Babylon in the fourth year of his reign. And this Seraiah
like to the tumultuous masses of block-ice when the great river
engines--electrical engineer--very hot work."
Of pride, indeed, there was, perhaps, scarcely enough; his indifference
A hush and pause fell down a wondrous minute,
happiness of this party.  I had quite determined to go away again."
iniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity of
soothsayers, shew unto the king; 2:28 But there is a God in heaven
hasten the matter. Howbeit the Levites hastened it not.
every year.
Then he shall answer, Those with which I was wounded in the house of
This the nucleus--after the child is born of woman, man is born of woman,

Of the rising forever taller and stronger and broader of the
walk.
To be invulnerable in those bright arms, 
ended in an absence of mind still more settled.
light-limbed and feline, he was longer and stronger in the arms.
destroy it: but I found none.
Base of the Temple."
come within the Kellynch circle, who could bear a comparison with
     Flambeau stared at him.  "What an odd person you are!" he said.


advertised by a musical society about a year before this time.  There was
   Macd. Well may you see things wel done there: Adieu
Your eyelids have been the same as closed most of the time,
"Why, blast your eyes, Bildad," cried Peleg, "thou dost not want to
black mask.

"He goes aft.  That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot
about Mr. Elton; and said, looking so very significantly at her,
meekness and righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee

20:7 Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be ye holy: for I am the LORD
happened to be in such an UNTIDY state as to be unable to obey a summons
On, on the same, ye jocund twain!

XV

close by her.
For this time I will leaue you:

to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.
and said, "Captain, the wind has changed within these five minutes, and
border of Damascus northward, to the coast of Hamath; for these are
Her heart was hardened against the belief of Mrs. Jennings's
trick of the Greybeard's.  Did you not observe how he looked at De Grey?"

Temperature of the wash and rinse waters is maintained at 85 - 90-degrees-F ( 29 - 32-degrees-C ) . The top rolls are loaded with 40 lbs. . Sixty lbs. loading is possible but 40 lbs. is adequate . The suds box drain is arranged at the start to deliver into the raised main drain pipe ( thus returning suds to soap box ) and the machine is started . The 160-ml. bath containing the calculated amount of detergent is applied slowly and directly to the running specimen . Washing is continued for 30 minutes or for a period of time sufficient to allow 100 nips or passes through the squeeze rolls . At the conclusion of the washing , 8 liters of water at 90-degrees-F ( 32*0C. ) are automatically metered from the rinse reservoir to the washing tubs , 4 liters to each tub . This operation requires from 10 to 12 minutes . During the rinsing operation the volume in the tubs gradually increases until overflow from the main drain begins . At this point the drains are readjusted so that the suds box drain will discharge directly into the waste line and the main tub drain is set at the 2-1/2 mark on the drain gauge . When all of the rinse water has passed from the reservoir to the tubs the main drains are lowered to permit complete draining of the tubs . The run is complete when all the water has drained off into the waste line . By this procedure rinsing progresses in two stages , first by dilution until the time when the drains are separated and thereafter by displacement of the soil-bearing liquor by clean rinse water , since soiled liquor squeezed from the specimens at the nip passes directly to waste from the suds box drains . This method of rinsing appears to produce maximum cleansing with minimum soil redeposition . Suggested evaluation and classification Evaluation may be made on either a soil-removal or a grease-removal basis as desired . A reflectance-measuring instrument may be desirable to measure cleaning , whereas Soxhlet extraction is necessary to measure grease removal . Purpose and scope This test method is intended for determining the dimensional changes of woven or knitted fabrics , made of fibers other than wool , to be expected when the cloth is subjected to laundering procedures commonly used in the commercial laundry and the home . Four washing test procedures are established , varying in severity from very severe to very mild , and are intended to cover the range of practical washing from commercial procedure to hand washing . Five drying test procedures are established to cover the range of drying techniques used in the home and commercial laundry . Three methods for determining the dimensional restorability characteristics are established for those textiles which require restoration by ironing or wearing after laundering . These tests are not accelerated and must be repeated to evaluate dimensional changes after repeated launderings . Table 1 , summarizes all of the various washing , drying , and restoration procedures available . The person using these tests must determine which combination of procedures is practical for any specific item in order to evaluate the dimensional changes of textile fabrics or garments after laundering procedures commonly used in the home or commercial laundry . It is possible to identify the test procedure completely with a code consisting of a Roman Numeral , a letter , and an Arabic number . For example Test 3 , E 1 refers to a specimen which has been washed by procedure `` 3 ( '' ( at 160-degrees-F ) for a total of 60 minutes in the machine , has been dried in a tumble dryer by procedure `` E '' and has been subjected to restorative forces on the Tension Presser by procedure `` 1 '' . Principle A specimen or garment is washed in a cylindrical reversing wash wheel , dried and subjected to restorative forces where necessary . Temperature and time of agitation in the wash wheel are varied to obtain different degrees of severity . Drying procedures and application of restorative force procedures are varied to conform with end-use handling during home or commercial laundering . Distances marked on the specimen in warp and filling directions ( or wales and courses for knitted fabrics ) are measured before and after laundering . Apparatus and materials wash wheel -- cylindrical wash wheel of the reversing type . The wheel ( cage ) is 20 to 24 inches inside diameter and 20 to 24 inches inside length . There are three fins each approximately three inches wide extending the full length of the inside of the wheel . One fin is located every 120-degrees around the inside diameter of the wheel . The wash wheel rotates at a speed of 30 revolutions per minute , making five to ten revolutions before reversing . The water inlets are large enough to permit filling the wheel to an eight-inch level in less than two minutes , and the outlet is large enough to permit discharge of this same amount of water in less than two minutes . The machine is equipped with a pipe for injecting live steam that is capable of raising the temperature of water at an eight-inch level from 110-degrees to 140-degrees-F ( 38*0 to 60*0C. ) in less than two minutes . The machine shall contain an opening for the insertion of a thermometer or other equivalent equipment for determining the temperature of the water during the washing and rinsing procedures . It is equipped with an outside water gauge that will indicate the level of the water in the wheel . A domestic automatic washer that will give equivalent results may be used . The wash wheel is the equipment preferred for the test . Pressing equipment -- flat-bed press measuring 24 inches by 50 inches or larger . Any flat-bed press capable of pressing a specimen 22 inches square may be used as an alternative . The flat-bed press is maintained at a temperature not less than 275-degrees-F ( 135*0C. ) . Dryer -- dryer of the rotary tumble type , having a cylindrical basket approximately 30 inches in diameter and 24 inches in length and rotating at approximately 35 r.p.m. . The dryer is provided with a means of maintaining a drying temperature of 120-degrees - 160-degrees-F ( 49*0 - 71*&0C. ) , measured in the exhaust vent as close as possible to the drying chamber . Screen drying racks -- 16-mesh screening ( Saran or Velon ) . Drying room -- facilities for drip- or line-drying . Extractor -- centrifugal extractor of the laundry-type with a perforated basket , approximately 11 inches deep by 17 inches in diameter , with an operating speed of approximately 1,500 r.p.m. . Pen and ink , indelible -- or other suitable marking device . measuring scale -- Soap , neutral chip -- fed. Spec. 566 or Aj . Softener -- e.g. sodium metaphosphate or sodium hexametaphosphate ( if needed in hard water areas ) . Detergent , synthetic -- alkylarysulfonate type . Flatiron , electric -- approximately 3 lb. tension presser -- consisting of a padded ironing board from which extend clamping members on all four sides . Two of the clamps are fixed to the edges of the board whereas two clamps travel on guide rails opposite the fixed clamps . The movable clamps travel on carriages which ride the rails and are drawn by dead-weight loading . Sets of weights are provided so that the load can be selected in the range of 1/2 to 4 pounds . A perforated aluminum plate , used to provide the drying surface , is heated by means of a flatiron . A special template is furnished with the apparatus to enable marking a specimen for a central measuring area and the fabric extensions to the clamps ( see Fig. 2 ) . Knit shrinkage gauge -- consisting of a set of 20 mounting pins set in guides in radial slots ( Fig. 1 ) . Each pin is individually sprung to a tensioning member which is driven outwardly in the slot . The springs have an extension of 1 inch at Af tension . The tensioning members have a common drive so that the application of restorative force takes place simultaneously in all directions in the plane of the test specimen . The minimum diameter of the pin frame in the collapsed state is 11 inches and the maximum diameter in the freely extended state ( unloaded ) is 14 inches . The surface of the apparatus in contact with the test specimen is uncluttered and polished so as to be as friction-free as possible . Test specimens The preparation of test specimens will vary depending upon the type of dimensional restorability procedure ( if any ) to be used . Three specimens for each sample to be tested are required in order to arrive at a satisfactory average of performance . This is especially true for knitted fabrics . Specimens are allowed to reach moisture equilibrium with a standard atmosphere of Af and Af and then laid out without tension on a flat , polished surface , care being taken that the fabric is free from wrinkles or creases . Fabrics that are badly distorted in their unlaundered state due to faulty finishing may give deceptive dimensional change results when laundered by any procedure . This also holds true if restorative forces are applied . Therefore , it is recommended that in such cases the sample be replaced , or if used , the results of dimensional change or dimensional restorability tests be considered as indicative only . Generally , it is necessary to mark distances on a specimen ( or garment ) in both lengthwise and widthwise directions and to measure before and after laundering . The distances may be marked with indelible ink and a fine-point pen , by sewing fine threads into the fabric , or by a specially designed stamping machine . The marked distances are parallel to the respective yarns . Usually , the greater the original distances marked , the greater will be the accuracy of the test . Distances of less than 10 inches are not recommended . Woven fabrics to be dried by procedure b ( flat-bed pressed ) or restored by procedure 3 ( hand ironing ) : The specimen of fabric is a rectangle at least 22 by 22 inches , except for cloth narrower than 22 inches , in which case the specimen is the entire width of the fabric . Three distances , each at least 18 inches , are measured and marked off parallel to each of the warp and filling directions . The distances are at least two inches from any edge of the specimen . Woven or warp knitted fabrics to be subjected to restorative procedure 1 ( tension presser ) . Each specimen is at least 25 inches by 25 inches . Place the template ( Fig. 2 ) on the fabric so that the sides of the 10 inch square cut out of the template are parallel to the warp and filling for woven fabrics , or the wales and courses for knitted fabrics , and so that the same amount of fabric extends beyond the edges of the template on all sides . Mark the specimen at the outer edges of the template with pen and indelible ink ; ; also place three dots on the specimen at each side of the 10 inch square , one dot at midpoint , and one at approximately 1/2 inch from each corner . Measure and record . Circular knitted fabrics to be subjected to restorative procedure 2 , ( knit shrinkage gauge ) . Each specimen is approximately 16 inches square . The markings consist of a centrally located 10 inch diameter measuring circle and a 14 inch diameter circle of 20 dots equidistantly spaced ( See Figure 1 ) . Garments . Critical measurements in length and width directions should be taken before and after washing , drying , and restorative procedures . Procedure washing -- The washing procedures are summarized in Table 2 . Place the specimen in the wash wheel with sufficient other similar fabric to make a dry load of Af pounds . Start the wash wheel and note the time . Immediately add water at 100 - 105-degrees-F ( 38 - 43*0C. ) to the wheel to a level of Af inches ; ; this level will be increased by condensed steam . When this water level has been reached , inject steam into the wheel until the temperature reaches that shown in Column B of Table 2 . Add sufficient soap ( and softener if required to counteract hard water ) to furnish a good running suds , or if desired use a synthetic detergent . Test 1 , -- Stop the wash wheel at the end of the time shown in Column A of Table 2 , and drain . Refill the machine to a level of Af inches with water at 100 - 109-degrees-F ( ( 38 - 43*0 C. ) and start the machine . Inject steam , if necessary , to reach the temperature shown in Column D of Table 2 . Again stop the machine at the end of the time shown in Column C of Table 2 . This procedure is repeated for the second rinse , using the temperatures and time shown in Columns F and E of Table 2 . Tests 2 , 3 , , , and 4 . -- Run the machine continuously until completion of the test . Drain off the soap solution of the suds cycle at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of soap and water at the end of the time shown in Column A of Table 2 , , measured from the time the wash wheel was started . Refill the machine to a level of Af inches with water at 100 - 109-degrees-F ( 38 - 43*0C. ) . When this water level has been reached , inject steam until the temperature is that shown in Column Aj . Drain off the water at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end of the sum of the times shown in Columns A and C , measured from the time the wash wheel was started . Immediately refill to a level of Af inches with water at 100 - 109-degrees-F ( 38 - 43*0C ) . When this water level has been reached inject steam until the temperature is that shown in Column Aj . Drain off the water at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end of the sum of the times shown in Columns A , C , and E , measured from the time the wash wheel was started .

(You distant, dim unknown--or young or old--countless, unspecified,
82:5 They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in
with the other, and with a high raised voice exclaiming: "Whosoever
8:5 Then said he unto me, Son of man, lift up thine eyes now the way


    the firemen, and pause, listen, count.
motive, immediately jumped into the car; but the girl cast an eye

calling to him from a little farther along the cliff, to tell him
Saying these words, with great vehemence he seized hold of Piedro, and in
may go."
by some attack of Mrs. Churchill that he was prevented coming.--
Some of the jury wrote it down 'important,' and some 'unimportant.'


exactly."
21:22 And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the
anointed; and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an
could not find what they might do: for all the people were very


 
meanwhile.  It was a very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and
    leads himself this time with brandish'd sword,)
and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
the kingdom of God is greater than he.
Let not Light see my black and deepe desires:

said Alice, seriously, 'I'll have nothing more to do with you. Mind
had been so easily impressed--so sweetly disposed--had in short,
I see the Wacho crossing the plains, I see the incomparable rider of
as certain.  It will be quite delightful, I declare!
Jerusalem.
steadiest creature in the world, it would be enough to spoil her;
necessity for his periodical visits to the upper world.  But he
I am the LORD.
true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, and not man.
and when he spoke again, it was of something totally different.
thou also, and let thy foreskin be uncovered: the cup of the LORD's
sides of those edifices; whereby, with prodigious long upliftings of
Seen at hand or seen at a distance,


"What's gone, love?" said his mother.
seemed to assert that the whole following had been an accident.
     There was a blank stillness for a measurable time, so that
not this my saying, when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled
23:25 And like unto him was there no king before him, that turned to
Songs of stern defiance ever ready,
he had hurried to drive whoever it was away. It hadn't entered his head


descending upon the Son of man.
18:10 When ye go, ye shall come unto a people secure, and to a large
and a great favourite wherever he goes; and from his general way
Lothario, like pious Solomon devoutly worshipping among his thousand
salted death, though;--cherries! cherries! cherries!  Oh, Flask, for
What myriads of dwellings are they fill'd with dwellers?
21:5 They shall not make baldness upon their head, neither shall they
sufficient command of himself.  "My friends, I see you are discontented
not to be wakened by the most violent knockings?  It seemed no bad
11:9 And the LORD said unto me, A conspiracy is found among the men of
that he was pale with the loss of blood.
resumed the priest reflectively.  "And here is the second of them.
Seawards there was no sail or sign of life save a few seagulls:
veins, whereby when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least
I see the crusaders marching bearing the cross on high, to the
He thought of it all day long, and for many days successively,

But wherefore do you hold me heere so long?
with him, (now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his
up the light of thy countenance upon us.
1:2 Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land.
vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with beasts, and with
And that the enclosing purport of us here is not a speculation or
Though his Barke cannot be lost,
hurry, I know what it is to be in a hurry--Lord, what a hurry I
glance from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed

what is the matter?"
dwell solitarily in the wood, in the midst of Carmel: let them feed in
Celestial equipage; and now came forth 
were careful to stand together and scarcely spoke a word
and knowest not these things?  3:11 Verily, verily, I say unto thee,

     11
barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry
48:17 And the suburbs of the city shall be toward the north two
do?"
hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.
had but icily received his petition.  "For eight-and-forty hours let
21:18 The princes digged the well, the nobles of the people digged it,
and against all Idumea, which have appointed my land into their
The psalm in the country church or mid the clustering trees, the
"Yes, my friends," said the little man, with an animated
For, while I sit with thee, I seem in Heaven; 

Here, now, are two great whales, laying their heads together; let us
have a better.  Well, I wish them happy with all my heart.  And now,
who have ever known it, except the inventor himself and the Minister
'Come, it's pleased so far,' thought Alice, and she went on. 'Would you
day to day the little shoots grew and flourished till they were all well
"Oh, dear!" thought the little Jackal; "the big Alligator has my paw in
We are by doom to pay; rather, such acts 
scarcely perceptible.  Vexed to be out-generalled, and still more vexed


and it shall be opened unto you: 7:8 For every one that asketh
Here have I been sitting this hour, giving these young ladies
they came gradually to talk only of Robert,--a subject
broken circles in the air, vainly striving to escape the piratical
their idols; and I will scatter your bones round about your altars.
king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, in
hammer; and with the hammer she smote Sisera, she smote off his head,
20:37 And I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you
gentleman was both pleased and surprised at the sight of these drawings,
Good night Titinius: Noble, Noble Cassius,
your lamb better than both your father and your mother, keep it, and good
but I had guessed it with the first glint of the moon on him."
26:5 Reuben, the eldest son of Israel: the children of Reuben; Hanoch,
the purposes which could be answered in London, he called himself
  Macb. Where are they? Gone?


But say, what mean those coloured streaks in Heaven 
time.
Nevertheless, each man knew the other, even in that inky outline;
hand of the Philistines: and to morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with
    the most courageous and friendly young men,
7:11 And above were costly stones, after the measures of hewed stones,
Philistines behind; and they shall devour Israel with open mouth. For

thinking how lucky the City Mouse was, when suddenly the door opened
height reached unto the heaven, and the sight thereof to all the
the conversation a little.
that I believe his character to be in other respects
under sin.
    nighest neighbor--woman in mother, sister, wife,
same about the natural.  If the natural does not exist the
opinion will be decidedly in his favour.  I have heard so much
Your masculine voice O year, as rising amid the great cities,
beyond the shrubbery again.  It was some comfort to him that many

Lands of mines, lands of the manly and rugged ores,
2:21 For it had been better for them not to have known the way of

Solomon.
had been completely in the old English style, containing only
11:12 And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul
a prey? were it not better for us to return into Egypt?  14:4 And they

21:10 If he take him another wife; her food, her raiment, and her duty

village of Grassley-in-the-Hole.
she hoped the rencontre would do them no harm.
creature:
bitterness, in the heat of my spirit; but the hand of the LORD was
Rory.  Sure 'twas none of I made it--'twas Talbot here.
the crown wherewith his mother crowned him in the day of his

because they had defiled their sister.
brother to wife.
really looked as if he had been twisted out of shape by the
of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up from the land

"I'm only thinking about these coloured shadows," said Ben.
4:18 And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor
Shemida: these were the male children of Manasseh the son of Joseph by
8:13 They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the
gathered out of many people, against the mountains of Israel, which
the ranges: and him that followeth her kill with the sword. For the

was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.
whosoever eateth that which is leavened, even that soul shall be cut
said a short Latin prayer to himself, during which Turnbull made
the memory was--the French Revolution. There should have been the
at her time of life, had been possible to the nice tone of her mind,
sharp stones, and only saved by its own charities upon earth.
share in the manufactory.  It was his business to hammer the soles flat:
their heart may faint, and their ruins be multiplied: ah! it is made
If damned Custome haue not braz'd it so,
at the slave-trade, I assure you Mr. Suckling was always rather
goes on to make a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more
    so offensive,
You know Queen's Square?"  Franklin bowed.  "You must expect," continued
13:19 So he went back with him, and did eat bread in his house, and
Seek not the praise of men:  The other sort, 

"What do you mean by keeping your birthday?"
and wanted to speak with him on very particular business.
unexceptionable applicant, on his own terms, and as a great favour,

"I have no hesitation in saying," replied Mr. Elton, though hesitating
Obominable, inutterable, and worse 
always gave him something to take home to his Mammy.

in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the
"You were right, Little Joe! I'm sorry that I doubted it. See him go!
the hearers.
and I felt that I had still a motive for remaining here."
Tied in your mouth, in mine it begins to be loosen'd.)

better opinion of you."
Tirzah.
33:12 And of Benjamin he said, The beloved of the LORD shall dwell in
care of him just as carefully as he himself used to care for the little
house: and they went up with winding stairs into the middle chamber,
heard afar off.
44:2 Then said the LORD unto me; This gate shall be shut, it shall not

through with what I've begun.  I am manager, and I will be manager; and
'Possess it, and all things that therein live, 
him to where Sammy had seen Buster Bear that morning. Then they would
2:18 And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to fast: and
and knowledge for thyself, that thou mayest judge my people, over whom
*Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.
The obliging shopkeeper, who showed the pretty calicoes to Susan, was now

I am off to Madrid, to see the King!" And he went laughing off,
approaching.
who believed herself loved by Mr. Knightley--but justice required
12:5 And the LORD came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in
 Thy Maker lay, and wept for me:

the persecutor of science was a generalization from Galileo.  I
Mary, resenting that she should be supposed not to know her own cousin,
    makes it!

house and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving wife,
the old blind man to his little conductor; she therefore went on the
"You may laugh; but I say it is the same sort of thing.  Women who are
to answer the wishes of his mother and sister, who longed
to explain it, she might be as liable to say too much
BUSTER BEAR GOES BERRYING
the centre of this trough, or chasm, a little path ran, cleared


rottenness, and their blossom shall go up as dust: because they have
9:26 And after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but
upon it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging, and seeking
12:50 For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven,



They go! they go! I know that they go, but I know not where they go,
"Get along with ye," said she to the man, "or I'll be combing ye!"
were the first subject on meeting.  He had been going to call
Oh Hamlet, what a falling off was there,

unto Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and unto the princes of the
2:7 For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek
perhaps, artificial.

was to be to the house of a very old friend in Windsor, to whom
and there it stayed for a twelvemonth or more; when I gave him an
respectable man, perfectly the gentleman, (and not an ill-looking man,

country: and the wood devoured more people that day than the sword
shall be for ever.
Hiram was ever a lover of David.
"Dirty, sir! Look at my shoes.  Not a speck on them."

work, whilst Lazy Lawrence sauntered about without knowing what to do
Witches Mummey, Maw, and Gulfe


he shall surely be put to death.
John Boulnois was a big, slow-moving man with a massive head,
and in which she soon betrayed an interest even equal
for the folly which asked the question.

That mighty leading Angel, who of late 
things which Jesus did, believed on him.
remaining horns; yes, TWO of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me.

will I be in thy presence.

Tangles as tangled in him as any canebrake or swamp,

to the advancement of each.
Middleton introduced the two strangers; Mrs. Dashwood
though when she considered what Marianne's love for him was,
Heroick ardour to adventurous deeds 
O the cotton plant! the growing fields of rice, sugar, hemp!
the two rings in the two ends of the breastplate.
he ran round and round the sugar-cane field, and as he ran he sang and
the cabin.
The power of personality just or unjust.

Ruin must needs ensue; for what avails 

bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of
on his seat, like a pacing tiger in his cage.
never saw such fine children in my life.--I declare I
England into a madhouse?  I'm not the Prime Minister; we're not
and as your keepsake, I'll keep it as long as I live."
a single man at the time, she had a fond dependence on no human creature's
"What do you all look at me so for?  Why do you all look so?  And am I to
We consulted together, however, as to what should be done,
the smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning
young people, and to amuse them with a ball.  This was
exceeding glad with thy countenance.
answered and said unto Ezra, We have trespassed against our God, and

was already aware of what occasioned her absence.
captain's pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his
"I have heard him lamenting her having no instrument repeatedly;
Before thy fellows, ambitious to win 

king of Israel disguised himself; and they went to the battle.
into the shingle below.  Then leaving MacIan and the policemen
'I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, 'because I'm not


good thing, we shall be able to meet, and meet pretty often,
leave his blood upon him, and his reproach shall his LORD return unto
are perfectly right.  My father certainly could mean
    firm hand,
"Go, then, about your business," said Mrs. Theresa, "and here's a
female thy estimation shall be three shekels of silver.
but in the cities of Judah dwelt every one in his possession in their
and your favourite little Rosetta, and my old drawing master, and my
which are so proper, in me especially."
and seizing a branch of chestnut to steady himself, shouted
Which must be mutual, in proportion due 
15:10 And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst,
answered.
which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem, and
a few minutes conversation with him again, she fancied she should

machine-guns at the windows.  But we, the lunatics, will wait to
triolet."
Of him I love day and night I dream'd I heard he was dead,

The roof was fretted gold. Not Babylon 

came with him out of Egypt; the Lubims, the Sukkiims, and the
The east and the west are mine, and the north and the south are mine.


Weren't there parsons in the old days, when they fought without gloves?
or die was a matter of his own sovereign will and pleasure.  He
him, not severely, across the shoulders with the flat of his
as she spoke; "but perhaps there may be reasons--I wish
of it being taken across the sea to Owen, the English Anatomist, it
 Blasts the new-born infant's tear,
we are accustomed to the clatter of the incongruous; it is a tune
charade.--You will betray your feelings improperly, if you are
And Ile be plac'd so, please you in the eare
men, and they knew not why.
     Almost before they could take it in a short figure in French uniform


of being interesting to a brother whose home it had equally been
turnpike earth!--that common highway all over dented with the marks
wholesome and the most customary.  You refuse me the company and
please me so well since Charlotte was brought to bed."
without taking pains to converse with him."
What I haue said to you

all.
horsemen unto the Red sea.

sockets under another board for his two tenons.
David in Hebron; for he had sent him away, and he was gone in peace.

I die.


dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage: 20:36 Neither can they

toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with


by profaning the sabbath.
38:14 Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no
invented; he had invented everything in the flying ship, with the
delighted to speak of his former visit, and recur to old stories:
    moderate night-wind,

15:27 He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that
The law of drunkards, informers, mean persons, not one iota thereof
8:2 And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them
of more suitable intimates within Miss Elliot's reach, was therefore
I have been silent from surprize merely, excessive surprize.
a trouble unto me; I am weary to bear them.
her hand.  "Oh, I don't know," she said, bitterly.  "Now I come
the lads and lassies of the village shall have a dance on Susan's

"Rights!" repeated the unknown in a tone quite indescribable.
sign of his kingship on him, stood before the throne and stared with
knowest the hearts of the children of men:) 6:31 That they may fear
Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok,
the tower which lieth out from the king's high house, that was by the
upon Hartfield.  To Highbury in general it brought no material change.
simply cut him short. Before Syme could ask the first diplomatic
"I do remember it," cried Emma; "I perfectly remember it.--
Gehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is that Shunammite: 4:26 Run now, I
to her.
15:17 And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was

and light column of smoke ascending.--She joined them at the wall,
thanks?  10:31 Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye
Rend your clothes, and gird you with sackcloth, and mourn before
presence? shall this fellow come into my house?  22:1 David therefore

spirits, demanding "How long he meant to keep them in this dark dungeon?
7:17 They shall lick the dust like a serpent, they shall move out of

king, to make supplication unto him, and to make request before him
the sense of touch is concentrated in the tail; for in this respect

them; and wrought wicked things to provoke the LORD to anger: 17:12
Thus early, thus alone: Her heavenly form 
We overpower? Suppose he should relent 
with their father, through the gloom of the evening, to make enquiries;
9:6 Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in the way of understanding.
or even before, I believe, had added to my debts; and though
without reproaches, or apparent sense of ill-usage; and yet Emma fancied


8:22 While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and

21:26 He coveteth greedily all the day long: but the righteous giveth
that the more smoothly they yielded, the more swiftly would
69:31 This also shall please the LORD better than an ox or bullock
of the Apennines.
11:12 And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah: 11:13
As, when from mountain-tops the dusky clouds 
1:25 And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Eli.
For men and women whose tempers have never been master'd,
      They made their moan.
flinging the baby at her as she spoke. 'I must go and get ready to play
4:1 And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of the
"Poor dear fellow!" continued Mrs Musgrove; "he was grown so steady,
"The old man was moving as quickly as he could."
1:5 For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son,
With flowerets decked, and fragrant smells; but Eve, 
about me!--Oh! my sins, my sins!--And I had plenty all the while in
the wing-folding, the invoking, and adoring cherubim!
thanksgiving, and the voice of melody.
 He'd have God for his father, and never want joy.
and from thence returning to town, procured the forgiveness
fatherless, and the widow, that are among you, in the place which the
hysterical. Have some more beer. I'll join you."

infant Indian in his talons.  With loud lament the parents saw their
any claims of Charles Hayter.  He was only wrong in accepting
"Yes, for the honest dealer," said Francisco, "but for no other; for in
white; then the priest shall shut up him that hath the plague seven
well-informed people, who have a great deal of conversation;

those two decisive dances.--Emma knew that he had, on that occasion,
pressed it, and certainly was on the point of carrying it to his lips--
"I hope Mrs. Bates and Miss Fairfax are--"
valley of salt eighteen thousand.

make for him in the war, by casting up mounts, and building forts, to
spoke to him with her square and open smile in the porch of the
upon the holy place.  He might have spared his emotion.  The cross
The maple woods, the crisp February days and the sugar-making,
from the shore.  Now the Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under
only express it by saying that the arched brows and the long

of the LORD your God.
their brethren the children of Israel.
of Bath, and grieving to forego all the influence so sweet and so sad
sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times,

Breakfast had not been long over, when they were joined by Captain

36:23 And I will sanctify my great name, which was profaned among the
6:16 Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey,

again towards the rejected Mr. Martin.
devil of his madness came upon him with a violence and
with little gasps of caution. And yet, unless the philosophical
at her, and disallowed her not: then all her vows shall stand, and

24:43 But know this, that if the goodman of the house had known in
This file should be named bllcr10.txt or bllcr10.zip

he shall wash his clothes, and be clean.
men selling vegetables dropped their baskets and joined in the
an engraver, and a cunning workman, and an embroiderer in blue, and in
4:40 Thou shalt keep therefore his statutes, and his commandments,

disobedient: whereunto also they were appointed.
boy, the cliffs were as fantastic as the clouds.  Heaven seemed to
78:52 But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them
exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave?  3:23 Why is

a Mr (save, perhaps, some half dozen in the nation,) always needs


5:1 Run ye to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now,
These people at our backe
talking with Jesus.

indeed, at times by the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the
unto the people that they shall make captains of the armies to lead

143:4 Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me
losing even their large heraldic shapes.  Shards and shreds of

46:9 Remember the former things of old: for I am God, and there is
5:20 And we know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us an
with her? Who makes you their confidant?"
of strong surprise were over with her.  Still, however,
harlot, and sold a girl for wine, that they might drink.
flee this way or that way: and the people that fled to the wilderness
conscious of his regard for her at Norland; it was not

And the shores of the sea are ours, and the rivers great and small,
classic face. And there was the last nightmare touch that his
(For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take
Through day and night with the great cloud darkening the land,
That burden, heavier than the earth to bear; 
13:29 For some of them thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus
be equally positive in their opinion, and to repeat it
chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his nose in a sort
To give us only good; and if the night 
as possible.  But the singular old man with the lank red face
reproached himself longer, perhaps, if Lady Di Sweepstakes' sons had not

persuaded to act exactly opposite to what she would have required.
Almost affraid to know it selfe. It cannot
to be done, and there is no telling how many things to be thought of,
that he had written on the wall above the body a fragmentary sentence,
29:32 And the number of the burnt offerings, which the congregation
partly lurid twilight; the sea was of an inky purple and murmuring ominously.
might give a sudden turn to his constitution, and carry
Cassius or Caesar neuer shall turne backe,
find the door.
1:18 Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them
12:27 Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me
Israel, and because of their transgressions in all their sins: and so
upon the tables appropriated for each.  How unsteady were the last steps
it at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron's sons
parched corn, and an hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred
the burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall
the month Sebat, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the
other people, low company, paltry rooms, foul air, disgusting associations
it managed to speak.
done it: thou wilt bring the day that thou hast called, and they shall

In the roof above their heads a panel shot back, showing a strip
The silence was followed by a universal buzz of applause.  The judges
between your brethren, and judge righteously between every man and his
of the Prince of the Powers of the Air.  Tashtego was Stubb the
26:24 The Son of man goeth as it is written of him: but woe unto that
heard some people near him talking and laughing very loud.
live in them.
in her height with the multitude of her branches.
against his cursed jaw; ain't those mincing knives down in the

57:17 For the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth, and smote him:
the bright spot which Miss Isabella had cleaned by the stuff that she had

She was a widow and poor.  Her husband had been extravagant;

vicissitudes of the fishery.  For as the swift monster drags you
11:19 Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall make thee afraid; yea,
strangest, saddest city thou can'st see.  For Lima has taken the
extracting the ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard
It will be a very fine object from many parts of the park,
"It seems so silly that you should have been on both sides and
rapidly, and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet.
how much she can improve herself!  Let me be just, though she has
infancy, Gabriel had to revolt into something, so he revolted into
Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water,


out of our farm to-morrow if he pleases; and sure enough he will please,


hearing of him wherever you were; his portrait was on every other postcard;
16:11 Then shalt thou say unto them, Because your fathers have


24:21 He evil entreateth the barren that beareth not: and doeth not
alteration in his patient, he would not allow the danger
she is thy mother's near kinswoman.
For we are bound where mariner has not yet dared to go,
The acquaintance she had already formed were unworthy of her.
7:15 And it was so, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and
50:4 He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that
The last; for of his reign shall be no end. 
"But they will hear me," said he, looking suspiciously at De Grey.
unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me.
nor unto whatsoever the LORD our God forbad us.

you, it be done speedily, 7:22 Unto an hundred talents of silver, and


I turne the trouble of my Countenance
and discontent of her husband gave her no pain;
beyond Highbury, making a sudden turn, and deeply shaded by elms

also he made the worlds; 1:3 Who being the brightness of his glory,
"Ka-la!  Koo-loo!" howled Queequeg, as if smacking his lips over a
he would be proceeded against as a receiver of stolen goods, if he did
30:8 For it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD of hosts,
It was a long, low inn, consisting really of a cottage and two barns;
and the Kellynch estate would as surely be his hereafter as the title.

the linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock,
cannot be eaten, they are so evil.
 2500  2000 December
7:15 And it is yet far more evident: for that after the similitude of
know how ye ought to answer every man.
120:5 Woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech, that I dwell in the tents
were added new and marvellous features, pertaining to the wild
prey, and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar

Los Angeles in 1957 finally bowed to the skyscraper . ) And without high density in the core , rapid-transit systems cannot be maintained economically , let alone built from scratch at today's prices . However , the building of freeways and garages cannot continue forever . The new interchange among the four Los Angeles freeways , including the grade-constructed accesses , occupies by itself no less than eighty acres of downtown land , one-eighth of a square mile , an area about the size of Rockefeller Center in New York . It is hard to believe that this mass of intertwined concrete constitutes what the law calls `` the highest and best use '' of centrally located urban land . As it affects the city's fiscal situation , such an interchange is ruinous ; ; it removes forever from the tax rolls property which should be taxed to pay for the city services . Subways improved land values without taking away land ; ; freeways boost valuation less ( because the garages they require are not prime buildings by a long shot ) , and reduce the acreage that can be taxed . Downtown Los Angeles is already two-thirds freeway , interchange , street , parking lot and garage -- one of those preposterous `` if '' statistics has already come to pass . The freeway with narrowly spaced interchanges concentrates and mitigates the access problem , but it also acts inevitably as an artificial , isolating boundary . City planners do not always use this boundary as effectively as they might . Less ambitious freeway plans may be more successful -- especially when the roadways and interchanges are raised , allowing for cross access at many points and providing parking areas below the ramp . Meanwhile , the automobile and its friend the truck have cost the central city some of its industrial dominance . In ever greater numbers , factories are locating in the suburbs or in `` industrial parks '' removed from the city's political jurisdiction . The appeal of the suburb is particularly strong for heavy industry , which must move bulky objects along a lengthy assembly line and wants enough land area to do the entire job on one floor . To light industry , the economies of being on one floor are much slighter , but efficiency engineers usually believe in them , and manufacturers looking for ways to cut costs cannot be prevented from turning to efficiency engineers . This movement of industry away from the central cities is not so catastrophically new as some prophets seem to believe . It is merely the latest example of the leapfrog growth which formed the pattern of virtually all American cities . The big factories which are relatively near the centers of our cities -- the rubber factories in Akron , Chrysler's Detroit plants , U.S. Steel's Pittsburgh works -- often began on these sites at a time when that was the edge of the city , yet close to transport ( river ) , storage ( piers ) and power ( river ) . The `` leapfrog '' was a phenomenon of the railroad and the steam turbine , and the time when the belts of residence surrounding the old factory area were not yet blighted . The truck and the car gave the manufacturer a new degree of freedom in selecting his plant site . Until internal combustion became cheap , he had to be near a railroad siding and a trolley line or an existing large community of lower-class homes . The railroad siding is still important -- it is usually , though not always , true that long-haul shipment by rail is cheaper than trucking . But anybody who promises a substantial volume of business can get a railroad to run a short spur to his plant these days , and many businesses can live without the railroad . And there are now many millions of workers for whom the factory with the big parking lot , which can be reached by driving across or against the usual pattern of rush hour traffic and grille-route bus lines , is actually more convenient than the walk-to factory . Willow Run , General Electric's enormous installations at Louisville and Syracuse , the Pentagon , Boeing in Seattle , Douglas and Lockheed in Los Angeles , the new automobile assembly plants everywhere -- none of these is substantially served by any sort of conventional mass rapid transit . They are all suburban plants , relying on the roads to keep them supplied with workers . And wherever the new thruways go up their banks are lined by neat glass and metal and colored brick light industry . The drive along Massachusetts' Route 128 , the by-pass which makes an arc about twenty miles from downtown Boston , may be a vision of the future . The future could be worse . The plants along Route 128 are mostly well designed and nicely set against the New England rocks and trees . They can even be rather grand , like Edward Land's monument to the astonishing success of Polaroid . But they deny the values of the city -- the crowded , competitive , tolerant city , the `` melting pot '' which gave off so many of the most admirable American qualities . They are segregated businesses , combining again on one site the factory and the office , drawing their work force from segregated communities . It is interesting to note how many of the plants on Massachusetts' Route 128 draw most of their income either from the government in non-competitive cost-plus arrangements , or from the exploitation of patents which grant at least a partial monopoly . While the factories were always the center of the labor market , they were often on the city's periphery . In spreading the factories even farther , the automobile may not have changed to any great extent the growth pattern of the cities . Even the loss of hotel business to the outskirt's motel has been relatively painless ; ; the hotel-motel demarcation is becoming harder to find every year . What hurts most is the damage the automobile has done to central-city retailing , especially in those cities where public transit is feeble . Some retailing , of course , always spreads with the population -- grocery stores , drugstores , local haberdasheries and dress shops , candy stores and the like . But whenever a major purchase was contemplated forty years ago -- a new bedroom set or a winter coat , an Easter bonnet , a bicycle for Junior -- the family set off for the downtown department store , where the selection would be greatest . Department stores congregated in the `` one hundred per cent location '' , where all the transit lines converged . These stores are still there , but the volume of the `` downtown store '' has been on a relative decline , while in many cities the suburban `` branch '' sells more and more dry goods . If the retailer and hotelman's downtown unit sales have been decreasing , however , his dollar volume continues to rise , and it is dollars which you put in the bank . In most discussions of this phenomenon , the figures are substantially inflated . No suburban shopping-center branch -- not even Hudson's vast Northland outside Detroit -- does anything like the unit volume of business or carries anything like the variety of merchandise to be found in the home store . Telephone orders distort the picture : the suburbanite naturally calls a local rather than a central-city number if both are listed in an advertisement , especially if the local call eliminates city sales tax . The suburban branch is thereby credited with a sale which would have been made even if its glass doors had never opened . Accounting procedures which continue to charge a disproportionate overhead and warehouse expense to the main store make the branches seem more profitable than they are . In many cases that statement -- `` We break even on our downtown operation and make money on our branches '' -- would be turned around if the cost analysis were recalculated on terms less prejudicial to the old store . Fear of the competition -- always a great motivating force in the American economy -- makes retailers who do not have suburban operations exaggerate both the volume and the profitability of their rival's shiny new branches . The fact seems to be that very many large branch stores are uneconomical , that the choice of location in the suburbs is as important as it was downtown , and that even highly suburbanized cities will support only so many big branches . Moreover , the cost of operations is always high in any new store , as the conservative bankers who act as controllers for retail giants are beginning to discover . When all has been said , however , the big branch store remains a major break with history in the development of American retailing . Just as the suburban factory may be more convenient than the downtown plant to the worker with a car , the trip to the shopping center may seem far easier than to the downtown department store , though both are the same distance from home . Indeed , there are some cities where the suburban shopping pulls customers who are geographically much nearer to downtown . Raymond Vernon reports that residents of East St. Louis have been driving across the Mississippi , through the heart of downtown St. Louis and out to the western suburbs for major shopping , simply because parking is easier at the big branches than it is in the heart of town . To the extent that the problem is merely parking , an aggressive downtown management , like that of Lazarus Brothers in Columbus , Ohio , can fight back successfully by building a garage on the lot next door . If the distant patron of the suburban branch has been frightened away from downtown by traffic problems , however , the city store can only pressure the politicians to do something about the highways or await the completion of the federal highway program . And if the affection for the suburban branch reflects a desire to shop with `` nice people '' , rather than with the indiscriminate urban mass which supports the downtown department store , the central location may be in serious trouble . Today , according to land economist Homer Hoyt , shopping centers and their associated parking lots cover some 46,000 acres of land , which is almost exactly the total land area in all the nation's Central Business Districts put together . The downtown store continues to offer the great inducement of variety , both within its gates and across the street , where other department stores are immediately convenient for the shopper who wants to see what is available before making up her mind . If anything may be predicted in the quicksilver world of retailing , it seems likely that the suburban branch will come to dominate children's clothing ( taking the kid downtown is too much of a production ) , household gadgetry and the discount business in big-ticket items . Department stores were built on dry goods , especially ladies' fashions , and in this area , in the long run , the suburban branches will be hard put to compete against downtown . If this analysis is correct , the suburban branches will turn out to be what management's cost accountants refuse to acknowledge , marginal operations rather than major factors . Historically in America the appeal of cities has been their color and life , the variety of experience they offered . `` How ya gonna keep 'em down on the farm '' ? ? Was a question that had to be asked long before they saw Paree . Though Americans usually lived in groups segregated by national origin or religious belief , they liked to work and shop in the noise and vitality of downtown . Only a radical change in the nature of the population in the central city would be likely to destroy this preference -- and we must now turn our attention to the question of whether such a change , gloomily foreseen by so many urban diagnosticians , is actually upon us . 4 . Suburbs and Negroes In their book , American Skyline , Christopher Tunnard and Henry Hope Reed argue that Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal was what made the modern suburb a possibility -- a fine ironical argument , when you consider how suburbanites tend to vote . The first superhighways -- New York's Henry Hudson and Chicago's Lake Shore , San Francisco's Bay Bridge and its approaches , a good slice of the Pennsylvania Turnpike -- were built as part of the federal works program which was going to cure the depression . At the same time , Roosevelt's Federal Housing Administration , coupled with Henry Morgenthau's cheap-money policy , permitted ordinary lower-middle-class families to build their own homes . Bankers who had been reluctant to lend without better security than the house itself got that security from the U. S. government ; ; householders who had been unable to pick up the burden of short-term high-interest mortgages found they could borrow for twenty-five years at 4 per cent , under government aegis .
impression in wax, and carefully replaced it in Franklin's trunk, exactly
could indeed be seen shuffling along in the twilight in front,
cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David;
have the goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of
Gregory resumed his seat and passed his hand across his forehead.
Leg and Arm.
Mr. Elton had first entered not two years ago, to make his way

   1. Hayle


And now, having got these villains out of the way, let us return to
2:9 But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy
the soothsayers: and I told the dream before them; but they did not
Burs. (still sullen).  Oh, you need not beg my pardon about the matter.

far-off headlands like a lasso.
I was taught that some things are natural and some things divine.
   Cin. What is my name? Whether am I going? Where
are seldom materially relaxed, and in no instance done away.  Indeed,
and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of
wonderfully abstemious, not to say dainty.  It seemed hardly possible

had written unto them; 9:24 Because Haman the son of Hammedatha, the
he tells things which he had better not, and he repeats it all to her.
And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor
thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?  1:17 If thou count me
Amidst as from a flaming mount, whose top 
Light after light, well us'd, they shall attain, 

Turning our tortures into horrid arms 
12:1 Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a
For the ashes of all dead soldiers South or North.
37:31 And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall

VI. The Head of Caesar

and, in short, her civility rendered her quite as anxious to be left
are the secrets of his heart made manifest; and so falling down on his
3:8 Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints, is this grace
9:35 And they went to bury her: but they found no more of her than the
the small prayer-book in Oman's dark-gloved hand.  "I didn't know
remove toward the north, and half of it toward the south.
25:27 And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth year of the
salvation is of the Jews.
25:7 And when he was come, the Jews which came down from Jerusalem
speakest no proverb.
do thy eyes wink at, 15:13 That thou turnest thy spirit against God,
ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and
that I speak unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that
shall keep the watch of the house of the LORD about the king.

Now, this plan of Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touching the
unto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is one
people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast
learned thy righteous judgments.
he went again to meet him, and told him, saying, The child is not
which is good in his sight.
  Cask. I, if I be aliue, and your minde hold, and your
the head of his separation, and put it in the fire which is under the
3:6 But now when Timotheus came from you unto us, and brought us good
The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side,
and distant detonation that had come just before.  Then came another


LORD thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And something to be done immediately



18:42 Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did
watched the twinkling movements of the talking hand, and read


of room and some convenient retreats were afforded them.  But the
you: I am filled with comfort, I am exceeding joyful in all our
39:8 Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach
cloth of blue, and cover them with a covering of badgers' skins, and
Lifted, illumin'd, bathed in peace--elate, secure in peace.
And along the edge of the sky in the horizon's far margin.
23:34 Thou shalt even drink it and suck it out, and thou shalt break
democratic?"
should have been as Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah.
perseverance in dwelling on the subject; and having so much to ask


  Sooth. Madam not yet, I go to take my stand,
on all sides.  For another minute the victory was doubtful; but at length
land of Egypt for badness: 41:20 And the lean and the ill favoured
hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.

others, the match itself must needs be wasting!  What I've dared,

"And here I am, ma'am," cried Jem, creeping from under the table, with
you know.  Why should there be any change?"
the young farmer out of Harriet's head.  She thought it would
that he might judge their characters, bid them do as they pleased.
Aldrovandus of others which measured eight hundred feet in
don't quite understand you."
At present low, but will soon be better.
with himself, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him: and he
arrival occasioned.  But this conciliation was not granted;
off the altar, that the angel of the LORD ascended in the flame of the
of the pommel with string.  With the string in his teeth, he said,
at Gray's, it was resolved, that while her young friends
"Here is one," said one of the men, "it is just little enough." And he
would not hear or answer a bell.  Thus there was no one to help me

For a darke houre, or twaine
told Mary to have a good heart, for that he should every year grow able
How due! yet all his good proved ill in me, 
 
Samson said unto his father, Get her for me; for she pleaseth me well.
Produce his body to the Market-place,
can manage it nicely, if you will take me on your back and swim over."
Witherspoon had jumped to his feet, his hair and beard all on end,
 Am not I
and Haran begat Gazez.
were enough ready to speak to allow Emma to think her own way,
33:20 Yet ye say, The way of the Lord is not equal. O ye house of
and departed into Egypt: 2:15 And was there until the death of Herod:
"How did the cook learn them?  Cannot I learn them as she did?"
Prisoner, fancy-man, rowdy, lawyer, physician, priest.
out at this late hour to call upon us.  I am afraid you must have

cost him what it might."
and it is amazing how disagreeable she found it.
her comparatively rich.  But there was nobody to stir in it.
any confinement been less irksome.  Willoughby was a young
Least our old Robes sit easier then our new
Cry, Caesar: Speake, Caesar is turn'd to heare
had they known as much as she did, they would have been most
Not dead, as we are threatened, but thenceforth 
somehow I grew merry again.  Delightful inducements to embark, fine

sword-stick, he held it hard.
against the base aspersion.  "No, it by no means wanted strength--
Oh wretched state! Oh bosome, blacke as death!
And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are five years of famine;
should be tranquilly laid out--which might hardly come to pass, so he
sunk them both very much.--It was not to be doubted that poor
I can make up for you a fruit stall.  I'll do it to-morrow, and it shall
all enjoyment.  As to the pretence of trying her native air, I look
It had bene as a gap in our great Feast,

lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them.
50:7 For the Lord GOD will help me; therefore shall I not be
making independence impossible.  To provide for her otherwise
and other like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the


then take care that it was not supreme? I tell you he has bought
The separate States, the simple elastic scheme, the immigrants,

for to morrow we die.
"I am ready, if the others are."
son of Jared, which was the son of Maleleel, which was the son of
men who smiled when told of their own death, or looked vacantly

voice, 3:8 Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day
stood so still that he could easily have supposed it to be a
    stockings.
sent for; and there is a kinde confession in your lookes;
blow.  Run tilting at it, and you but run through it.  Ha! a coward

Jerusalem, 2:2 Saying, Where is he that is born King of the Jews? for
large fortune, and had therefore given all the honour and received none:
36:15 Neither will I cause men to hear in thee the shame of the

the bottom of it. You see Little Joe and Billy Mink had had all the
And David sent Abner away; and he went in peace.
pierced him to the heart, "I find I have been deceived in you; it is but



rather to the surprise of Flambeau and the others, strode out,

Invoke thy aid to my adventurous song, 
"What do you mean?" said Marianne.
with all the credit and dignity which ought to belong to Sir Walter Elliot.
17:13 Then said Micah, Now know I that the LORD will do me good,
or ladies robed in ruby and emerald draperies.  As it thinned yet
Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah,
reconciliation.  Cecilia, though she was capable of acknowledging any of
over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was

"What do you mean?" asked Turnbull.

between two of the tall mansions, a mere slit like the crack of a door
   Who would not give all else for two
fathers, which he made with them when he brought them forth out of the
to it--my feelings shall be governed and my temper improved.
14:9 If they say thus unto us, Tarry until we come to you; then we
possible enough for wishing.  She was delighted with the fortitude
and also that he have no burial; I say, that an untimely birth is
which destroyeth kings.
impossible to describe.  "Here, here, upon this blessed grass."

and the world would be satisfied.  In my eyes it would
9:10 All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, which say,



there was yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store;
Their orisons, each morning duly paid 
22:15 For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hast
affair.
27:21 And he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall ask
for the last time to Willoughby.
he travel now?--Has he set up his carriage?"

`I can fasten the rivet.  I like a job of that sort excessively.'
cut off many persons: 17:18 Seeing he despised the oath by breaking
48:18 And the residue in length over against the oblation of the holy
him.
sincerity.
     In its eidolon.
earn but little by her work; and when the summer came, her rent was

into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
and Mr Musgrove, no longer under the first uneasiness about his heir,
seeing him; for his coming to Barton was, in her opinion,
Far off the flying Fiend. At last appear 
9:9 For, lo, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among
Captain with whom I was to sail yet remained unseen by me; though,
HARPOONEERS AND SAILORS.
cheerfulness of Mrs. Dashwood's looks and spirits proved
in the water, and then take it on your hands, careful, and bring it
the Captain of the School in his studies at Cambridge.  This collection

Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the
Syria.)  And Jehu said, If it be your minds, then let none go forth
As those slanted bayonets, whole forests of them appearing in the
Greatly in peace of thought; and have my fill 
did'st thou see the White Whale?--how long ago?"

for he will not have sodden flesh of thee, but raw.

since he fell unto me unto this day?  29:4 And the princes of the
The carpenter dresses his plank, the tongue of his foreplane
unto them, It is one of the twelve, that dippeth with me in the dish.
unto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it.
ask for curiosity, but really for my guidance and your convenience.

wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?  11:41 Then

the edge of the wilderness.
But haply for some sunny day (who knows?) some future spring, some
43:2 Then spake Azariah the son of Hoshaiah, and Johanan the son of
Mr. Weston, always alert when business was to be done, and as
Lead then, said Eve.  He, leading, swiftly rolled 
The lights indeed from them--old age's lambent peaks.
Susan now interceded for Barbara; and the attorney, softening his voice,
almost always at the service of an invitation from Hartfield,
   Macd. He ha's no Children. All my pretty ones?
his last night's exertions in terms of much approbation.  "How long have

1:15 So they look up Jonah, and cast him forth into the sea: and the
footsteps were not heard upon the sands, and Piedro did not perceive that




known sin, but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the law
him, and one tenth deal of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat
the days that were before shall be lost, because his separation was
Depress'd; and much they may, if all be mine, 
3:27 And when Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the
Powres the poyson in his eares.

9:25 Then said Jehu to Bidkar his captain, Take up, and cast him in

with great alacrity--"She was engaged to spend the evening
often with only Mr. Dixon, for which I do not at all blame them;
roundish, and grow out of the stem at the same place."
11:25 Then I spake unto them of the captivity all the things that the
"I do not quite follow you," said the Highlander.
loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship.


2:14 And the space in which we came from Kadeshbarnea, until we were

and misery, both in young and old.  I hope you think Louisa
They had reached Finchley Road before he opened it again.
trusted him--"As honest as Francisco," became a sort of proverb amongst
5:9 Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be condemned:
3:22 And the scribes which came down from Jerusalem said, He hath

  Hor. Of that I shall haue alwayes cause to speake,
car in a somewhat embarrassed manner and pulled off his cap.
while Harriet was puzzling over the paper in all the confusion
thereat: 30:20 When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation,
Lord from heaven.

I hear the Arab muezzin calling from the top of the mosque,
my dearly beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father
And fall a Cursing like a very Drab.
A full account of all that happened was sent to England to Mr. Harvey,
So far as what there may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed,
bottle of champagne in his hand.
Launch'd o'er the prairies wide, across the lakes,
Where thrift may follow faining? Dost thou heare,
made it, He made me not? or shall the thing framed say of him that
and desired to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.
7:4 So there went up thither of the people about three thousand men:
20:39 But the lad knew not any thing: only Jonathan and David knew the
      That affliction to soften and heal.--
with ten thousand men at his feet: and Deborah went up with him.

"I am really very much obliged to you, my little fellow," said he.  "You
Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth's fire, remained firmly
and might be brought, by time and address, to do
heaven.  For the clouds that belonged to London had closed over

flying roll.


Upon hearing how long a walk the young people had engaged in,
increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth.
but earth and all its growing things look almost black by comparison.
speaking with man's voice forbad the madness of the prophet.
most melancholy case, and also fortunately a very rare one.  It is
Elinor found that he and Fanny had been in town
39:15 Now the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah, while he was shut
Hath 'tane with equall Thankes. And blest are those,
With Nature's calm content, with tacit huge delight,
Each corporall Agent to this terrible Feat.


but Elinor, all happiness within, regarded it not.
Factories, machinery, the mechanical forces, the windlass, lever,

have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love.

continually girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there from

especially in a foreign language."

guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.


4:44 And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.
"Yes," replied Fisher, stammering; "but I wasn't sure that that might be
  Blacky is a schemer!
But as to the rest, as to the others, if one stays to assist Mrs Harville,
Yet soon he healed; for Spirits that live throughout 
13:12 Lo, when the wall is fallen, shall it not be said unto you,
ripples as he swam, that thinking after all he might not as yet be
them at all.
"'Twill be a fine thing to have her married so young
impression that the two sovereigns were identical. It was described

constrain you to be circumcised; only lest they should suffer
mere rubbish.
moveable, that thou canst not know them.
You all did see, that on the Lupercall,
nothing beyond the happiness of being the tenants of Sir Walter Elliot:
(Mother! with subtle sense severe, with the naked sword in your hand,

10:21 And of the sons of Harim; Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah,
About the great reception of their King, 
THE COFFIN LAID UPON TWO LINE-TUBS, BETWEEN THE VICE-BENCH AND THE

Captain," cried Queequeg disjointedly, "all twiske-tee be-twisk, like
Fear not--submit to no models but your own O city!
was one reed broad.
"I saw the nigger," gasped Turnbull.  "I saw the splendid
29:33 And the consecrated things were six hundred oxen and three

be convinced, it will always find something to support
Shillem.
calf!

    the torches,
loose and the lee lift is half-stranded.  Shall I strike it, sir?"
out of her.
lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.
Lucy.  Whilst you are drinking your chocolate, papa?
house.  She was alone in her parlour, and was sorting a bundle of
"I don't know; it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho.'"
of mine, they will each have about three thousand pounds
Nor you, Yosemite--nor Yellowstone, with all its spasmic
14:27 And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot
gate of the inner court.
     "I mean I am puzzled," replied the priest.  "I am puzzled about
And therefore was law given them, to evince 
   Y.Sey. No: though thou call'st thy selfe a hoter name
Temper or nourish, or in part shed down 
He engaged to be with them by four o'clock.
not always listening, but always agreeing to what he said;
she mean, think you?  People, you know, don't always mean exactly,
rough stones, green and slippery with seaweed, than we, who were young
"As soon as my aunt gets well, I shall go abroad," said he.
(For know I bear the soul befitting me, I too have consciousness, identity,
filled.
for Marianne had left the room on their arrival.

15:19 The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the



   1. Wee'l bring him to his House,
to whom she owes every thing, while she exercises incessant caprice
horse, and against his army.
will forsake them, and I will hide my face from them, and they shall
He then hastily took leave of them all and left
6:2 Have mercy upon me, O LORD; for I am weak: O LORD, heal me; for my
with the original notion of a bomb. As to the actual arrangements,
message, that there was something in the business which did not perfectly

morning, when he came to the use of his reason, he would be sensible of
voice while assuring her that he should call at Mrs. Goddard's
and shall pour out his blood at the bottom of the altar of burnt
knowledge increaseth sorrow.
bend the bow, shoot at her, spare no arrows: for she hath sinned
Destin'd to fill the world.
19:2 And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his
Of creatures animate with gradual life 

Yet with revenge accomplish'd, and to Hell 

to yourselves according to the composition thereof: it shall be unto
(For the war, the struggle of blood finish'd, wherein, O terrific Ideal,
Lady Russell confessed she had expected something better; but yet

players, except the King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and
place to begin breaking into the Tun.  In this business he proceeds
God, be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
that loveth not his brother.

Drat the file, and drat the bone!  That is hard which should be soft,
The humming-bird, the wild turkey, the raccoon, the opossum;
Well now, I think we had better turn back; I am excessively tired."

hear me speedily.
fresh fish! fresh fish!"
Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in


'I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, 'till tomorrow--'



and chop them in pieces, as for the pot, and as flesh within the
If I worship one thing more than another it shall be the spread of
doubt.

hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.
is nothing grandmama loves better than sweetbread and asparagus--
a comfortable one, and I hope will in time be better.
like a sea-wall there is a very honest but rather sharp-tempered
But it was of no use. The sharp eyes of Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow
to fit them for the place.--Emma only might be as nature prompted,
28:12 And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and
the mitre; as the LORD commanded Moses.
1:45 And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him
it with horror and amazement.
produce a mighty book, you must choose a mighty theme.  No great and
34:13 Who hath given him a charge over the earth? or who hath disposed
of their own existence.
is being carried down to the bottom of the sea by the sounding
attributing Charlotte's well doing to her own care, and ready

to whom he was related, and whose possessions he was

The hoist-up of beams, the push of them in their places, laying them
8:11 Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily,
30:20 Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and wipeth
will feed them, even this people, with wormwood, and give them water
They all come to the headland to witness and assist against me.

Pray loue remember: and there is Paconcies, that's for

But Treasons Capitall, confess'd, and prou'd,
She was pleased, on taking leave, to find Miss Fairfax determined
Proclaiming life to all who shall believe 
Whoever you are holding me now in hand,
24:22 Of the Izharites; Shelomoth: of the sons of Shelomoth; Jahath.
And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and
I offered immediately, as soon as my mother related
in their dreams, and that but dimly; but the like of whom now and

I was reserving it for some hero, speaker, or general,
surprized that there could ever have been a doubt.  But Jane,
exists."
prepared before the face of all people; 2:32 A light to lighten the



to all them of the captivity, saying, Thus saith the LORD concerning
such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it any more.
are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.
that that box, that you hold in your hands, is a box; nay, for aught I
Poets unnamed--artists greatest of any, with cherish'd lost designs,
Of sorrow unfeigned, and humiliation meek. 
   Bru. Beare with me good Boy, I am much forgetfull.
very minute. Seems as if I could taste those berries." He licked his

ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.


beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his hammer frozen there; and so the
people, with fire, and brake down the walls of Jerusalem.
the dead: but I have hearkened to the voice of the LORD my God, and
58:1 Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do ye judge
   Doct. Heark, she speaks, I will set downe what comes
More than enough; at least on her bestowed 
11:1 Also I in the first year of Darius the Mede, even I, stood to
tabernacle: and their fathers, being over the host of the LORD, were
11:27 By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king:
interesting and satisfactory paragraph, at least to all
by whom shall Jacob arise? for he is small.

13:54 And when he was come into his own country, he taught them in
say, Come and see.
of the other was awakened.  It was not in that way that the swords
Those two; the third best absent is condemned, 
say he will come in when he knows who is here.  Quite delightful
27:24 These were thy merchants in all sorts of things, in blue
benefactresses left the country to spend some months in Dublin.  The old
a little more."
children of Israel went onward in all their journeys: 40:37 But if the
across his broad brow; and he seemed like one discovering embarrassment
Then I am pensive--I hastily walk away fill'd with the bitterest envy.
Moon!" he shouted, "I am coming!"
The list she drew up when only fourteen--I remember thinking it
Therefore he would not drink it.
overwhelmed me.
17:18 And she said unto Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou

What sort of marriage, what costumes, what physiology and phrenology,
but an armed order of chivalry thrown in three circles round the
flowers on the sides. The two front corners had canariensis in them.
Wealth, order, travel, shelter, products, plenty;

skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a leprosy.
caught me."
as themselves to fall a prey.
plotting with their barbarous gang at the alehouse; and they'll certainly
were alike remote from the world.  The shop and the Cross were
precisely the season of the year which one should have chosen

for the efforts he made towards a reconciliation with my father.
again take root downward, and bear fruit upward.

years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he in
household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do

is spread abroad; so that we need not to speak any thing.
such as she was, in situation and name, and home, presiding and blessing
Amnon; then kill him, fear not: have not I commanded you? be
many on our behalf.
that the man who first thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale, must
entered it,--and saw only Willoughby.
same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two

man of God, which had cried against the altar in Bethel, that he put

fortress.
and they have caused Egypt to err in every work thereof, as a drunken
relaxing at all the grave and cultured benignity of his
thou peaceably?  16:5 And he said, Peaceably: I am come to sacrifice
with the sword, nor dead in battle.
receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.
creation. "After all," he said to himself, "I am more than a devil;
Whenever artists , indeed , turned to actual representations or molded three-dimensional figures , which were rare down to 800 B.C. , they tended to reflect reality ( see Plate 6a , 9b ) ; ; a schematic , abstract treatment of men and animals , by intent , rose only in the late eighth century . To speak of this underlying view of the world is to embark upon matters of subjective judgment . At the least , however , one may conclude that Geometric potters sensed a logical order ; ; their principles of composition stand very close to those which appear in the Homeric epics and the hexameter line . Their world , again , was a still simple , traditional age which was only slowly beginning to appreciate the complexity of life . And perhaps an observer of the vases will not go too far in deducing that the outlook of their makers and users was basically stable and secure . The storms of the past had died away , and the great upheaval which was to mark the following century had not yet begun to disturb men's minds . Throughout the work of the later ninth century a calm , severe serenity displays itself . In the vases this spirit may perhaps at times bore or repel one in its internal self-satisfaction , but the best of the Geometric pins have rightly been considered among the most beautiful ever made in the Greek world . The ninth century was in its artistic work `` the spiritually freest and most self-sufficient between past and future '' , and the loving skill spent by its artists upon their products is a testimonial to their sense that what they were doing was important and was appreciated . The Aegean in 800 B.C. Geometric pottery has not yet received the thorough , detailed study which it deserves , partly because the task is a mammoth one and partly because some of its local manifestations , as at Argos , are only now coming to light . From even a cursory inspection of its many aspects , however , the historian can deduce several fundamental conclusions about the progress of the Aegean world down to 800 B.C. . The general intellectual outlook which had appeared in the eleventh century was now consolidated to a significant degree . Much which was in embryo in 1000 had become reasonably well developed by 800 . In this process the Minoan-Mycenaean inheritance had been transmuted or finally rejected ; ; the Aegean world which had existed before 1000 differed from that which rises more clearly in our vision after 800 . Those modern scholars who urge that we must keep in mind the fundamental continuity of Aegean development from earliest times -- granted occasional irruptions of peoples and ideas from outside -- are correct ; ; but all too many observers have been misled by this fact into minimizing the degree of change which took place in the early first millennium . The focus of novelty in this world now lay in the south-eastern districts of the Greek mainland , and by 800 virtually the entire Aegean , always excepting its northern shores , had accepted the Geometric style of pottery . While Protogeometric vases usually turn up , especially outside Greece proper , together with as many or more examples of local stamp , these `` non-Greek '' patterns had mostly vanished by the later ninth century . In their place came local variations within the common style -- tentative , as it were , in Protogeometric products but truly distinct and sharply defined as the Geometric spirit developed . Attica , though important , was not the only teacher of this age . One can take a vase of about 800 B.C. and , without any knowledge of its place of origin , venture to assign it to a specific area ; ; imitation and borrowing of motifs now become ascertainable . The potters of the Aegean islands thus stood apart from those of the mainland , and in Greece itself Argive , Corinthian , Attic , Boeotian , and other Geometric sequences have each their own hallmarks . These local variations were to become ever sharper in the next century and a half . The same conclusions can be drawn from the other physical evidence of the Dark ages , from linguistic distribution , and from the survivals of early social , political , and religious patterns into later ages . By 800 B.C. the Aegean was an area of common tongue and of common culture . On these pillars rested that solid basis for life and thought which was soon to be manifested in the remarkably unlimited ken of the Iliad . Everywhere within the common pattern , however , one finds local diversity ; ; Greek history and culture were enduringly fertilized , and plagued , by the interplay of these conjoined yet opposed factors . Further we cannot go , for the Dark ages deserve their name . Many aspects of civilization were not yet sufficiently crystallized to find expression , nor could the simple economic and social foundations of this world support a lofty structure . The epic poems , the consolidation of the Greek pantheon , the rise of firm political units , the self-awareness which could permit painted and sculptured representations of men -- all these had to await the progress of following decades . What we have seen in this chapter , we have seen only dimly , and yet the results , however general , are worth the search . These are the centuries in which the inhabitants of the Aegean world settled firmly into their minds and into their institutions the foundations of the Hellenic outlook , independent of outside forces . To interpret , indeed , the era from 1000 to 800 as a period mainly of consolidation may be a necessary but unfortunate defect born of our lack of detailed information ; ; if we could see more deeply , we probably would find many side issues and wrong turnings which came to an end within the period . The historian can only point out those lines which were major enough to find reflection in our limited evidence , and must hope that future excavations will enrich our understanding . Throughout the Dark ages , it is clear , the Greek world had been developing slowly but consistently . The pace could now be accelerated , for the inhabitants of the Aegean stood on firm ground . Chapter 5 the early eighth century the landscape of Greek history broadens widely , and rather abruptly , in the eighth century B.C. , the age of Homer's `` rosy-fingered Dawn '' . The first slanting rays of the new day cannot yet dispel all the dark shadows which lie across the Aegean world ; ; but our evidence grows considerably in variety and shows more unmistakably some of the lines of change . For this period , as for earlier centuries , pottery remains the most secure source ; ; the ceramic material of the age is more abundant , more diversified , and more indicative of the hopes and fears of its makers , who begin to show scenes of human life and death . Figurines and simple chapels presage the emergence of sculpture and architecture in Greece ; ; objects in gold , ivory , and bronze grow more numerous . Since writing was practiced in the Aegean before the end of the century , we may hope that the details of tradition will now be occasionally useful . Though it is not easy to apply the evidence of the Iliad to any specific era , this marvelous product of the epic tradition had certainly taken definitive shape by 750 . The Dipylon Geometric pottery of Athens and the Iliad are amazing manifestations of the inherent potentialities of Greek civilization ; ; but both were among the last products of a phase which was ending . Greek civilization was swirling toward its great revolution , in which the developed qualities of the Hellenic outlook were suddenly to break forth . The revolution was well under way before 700 B.C. , and premonitory signs go back virtually across the century . The era , however , is Janus-faced . While many tokens point forward , the main achievements stand as a culmination of the simple patterns of the Dark ages . The dominant pottery of the century was Geometric ; ; political organization revolved about the basileis ; ; trade was just beginning to expand ; ; the gods who protected the Greek countryside were only now putting on their sharply anthropomorphic dress . The modern student , who knows what was to come next , is likely to place first the factors of change which are visible in the eighth century . Not all men of the period would have accepted this emphasis . Many potters clung to the past the more determinedly as they were confronted with radically new ideas ; ; the poet of the Iliad deliberately archaized . Although it is not possible to sunder old and new in this era , I shall consider in the present chapter primarily the first decades of the eighth century and shall interpret them as an apogee of the first stage of Greek civilization . On this principle of division I must postpone the evolution of sculpture , architecture , society , and politics ; ; for the developments in these areas make sense only if they are connected to the age of revolution itself . The growing contacts between Aegean and Orient are also a phase which should be linked primarily to the remarkable broadening of Hellenic culture after 750 . We shall not be able entirely to pass over these connections to the East as we consider Ripe Geometric pottery , the epic and the myth , and the religious evolution of early Greece ; ; the important point , however , is that these magnificent achievements , unlike those of later decades , were only incidentally influenced by Oriental models . The antecedents of Dipylon vases and of the Iliad lie in the Aegean past . Dipylon pottery the pottery of the first half of the eighth century is commonly called Ripe Geometric . The severe yet harmonious vases of the previous fifty years , the Strong Geometric style of the late ninth century , display as firm a mastery of the principles underlying Geometric pottery ; ; but artists now were ready to refine and elaborate their inheritance . The vases which resulted had different shapes , far more complex decoration , and a larger sense of style . Beyond the aesthetic and technical aspects of this expansion we must consider the change in pottery style on broader lines . In earlier centuries men had had enough to do in rebuilding a fundamental sense of order after chaos . They had had to work on very simple foundations and had not dared to give rein to impulses . The potters , in particular , had virtually eschewed freehand drawing , elaborate motifs , and the curving lines of nature , while yet expressing a belief that there was order in the universe . In their vases were embodied the basic aesthetic and logical characteristics of Greek civilization , at first hesitantly in Protogeometric work , and then more confidently in the initial stages of the Geometric style . By 800 social and cultural security had been achieved , at least on a simple plane ; ; it was time to take bigger steps , to venture on experiments . Ripe Geometric potters continued to employ the old syntax of ornaments and shapes and made use of the well-defined though limited range of motifs which they had inherited . In these respects the vases of the early eighth century represent a culmination of earlier lines of progress . To the ancestral lore , however , new materials were added . Painters left less and less of a vase in a plain dark color ; ; instead they divided the surface into many bands or covered it by all-over patterns into which freehand drawing began to creep . Wavy lines , feather-like patterns , rosettes of indefinitely floral nature , birds either singly or in stylized rows , animals in solemn frieze bands ( see Plates 11 - 12 ) -- all these turned up in the more developed fabrics as preliminary signs that the potters were broadening their gaze . The rows of animals and birds , in particular , suggest awareness of Oriental animal friezes , transmitted perhaps via Syrian silver bowls and textiles , but the specific forms of these rows on local vases and metal products are nonetheless Greek . Though the spread of this type of decoration in the Aegean has not yet been precisely determined , it seems to appear first in the Cyclades , which were among the leading exporters of pottery throughout the century . As the material at the command of the potters grew and the volume of their production increased , the local variations within a common style became more evident . Plate 12 illustrates four examples , which are Ripe or Late Geometric work of common spirit but of different schools .
walking together at Lyme, and grieving for him?  I little thought then--

with an oath, in a most domineering and outrageous manner


thousand: for hitherto the greatest part of them had kept the ward of
thousand and five hundred sheep: 31:37 And the LORD's tribute of the

A child said What is the grass? fetching it to me with full hands;
3:25 Palal the son of Uzai, over against the turning of the wall, and
knocking in a tomb will terrify a whole city.  All these things are
felt in her husband's plans and her own, for a marriage between Frank
looking at a map, but because I know the people of the country,
    one disintegrated yet part of the scheme,
Thou know'st, that Banquo and his Fleans liues

drink a little water of thy pitcher.
cannot but think good an accident; good is so good, that we feel
do! I'll go up there at the very first peep of day to-morrow. I can eat
"that's the first idea to get fixed; the absence of Mr Glass.
21:45 And when the chief priests and Pharisees had heard his parables,
7:13 Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid. But
final facts.  Beyond that hill there is comparatively clear
of the Fagin type.  But he was a Jew of another and much less
supposing such attachment to be real and returned.  Anne heard her,
"I must ask you to forgive me all these formalities," said Gregory;

  Brut. What Lucius, hoe?

12:31 And he brought forth the people that were therein, and put them
Israel, to play the whore in her father's house: so shalt thou put
Earth of the limpid gray of clouds brighter and clearer for my sake!
Heaven, whose high walls fear no assault or siege, 
    each other, is every bit as wonderful.
every body found his manners pleasing."  Emma could not forgive her.
You cannot imagine how suddenly it has come on me! how peculiarly


endure for so long a period, such an unintermitted, intense straining

Of all races and eras these States with veins full of poetical stuff most
I mark the new aureola around your head,

26:2 He built Eloth, and restored it to Judah, after that the king
I see the sleeping babe nestling the breast of its mother,

hid from the king, which he told her not.
Their man-servant had been sent one morning to Exeter
vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the amplified

and uncondemned?  22:26 When the centurion heard that, he went and

I can say and you'd make my wife very happy; for she's a good woman, to
And MacIan rose to his feet with a vague excitement.
  Rosin. I that they do my Lord. Hercules & his load too
again?  So what signifies mouthing about persuading and convincing?  We
2:21 For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall

the proper nothings, she began to give the invitation which



the water like the capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy
fell into, the want of respectful forbearance towards her father.

Or dairy, each rural sight, each rural sound; 

and not pull you down, and I will plant you, and not pluck you up: for
ice, and wherein the snow is hid: 6:17 What time they wax warm, they
13:6 And the priest shall look on him again the seventh day: and,
take care of this garden, while I take care of the big one."

which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom.
    8
The Professor lifted his heavy lids, and gazed at Syme with large,
between the door and the window, as to make it hardly
any thing?  10:20 But I say, that the things which the Gentiles

mercy with thy servants that walk before thee with all their heart:
I suffer them to enter and possess 

report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over
precaution of bringing with her their eldest child, a fine
of them, fifty and two thousand and seven hundred.




Maternal as well as paternal, a child as well as a man,
Retreat then--pell-mell!
10:2 Their heart is divided; now shall they be found faulty: he shall
Awkward in the parlor, neither a dancer nor elegant,
are accounted a lucky omen.  If you yourself can withstand three
worst of nuts; there's the trouble of cracking 'em."
51:19 The portion of Jacob is not like them; for he is the former of

As the little singing figure came nearer and nearer, Evan fell on
   Cai. By all the Gods that Romans bow before,
"Dear little soul, how I do love her!"
With all thy wide geographies, manifold, different, distant,


15:16 Then Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what the
of Sunday."
the distance between the parsonage and the mansion-house
do, do all to the glory of God.
 Pitying, I dropped a tear:

hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure.  Consider also the
5:21 Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.
3:11 And the LORD said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel,
have a pretty guinea-hen to show you."  Barbara, secretly drawing
11:7 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Your slain whom ye have laid

27:23 And the governor said, Why, what evil hath he done? But they
nor by battle, by horses, nor by horsemen.
"An hour ago," said the Highlander, in his heavy meditative

in that total want of talent and taste which confined
with their minds, and seeing Turnbull's trick, ran along the edge
common friends must be soon bringing them together again.
95:3 For the LORD is a great God, and a great King above all gods.
house.
an article of commerce, that in 1791 a certain Nantucket-born Captain
Might have ensued, nor only Paradise 
parlour, and with him a gentleman's servant, who came to Paul, and
limbs--lithe swayings--coyings--flutterings! lip! heart! hip! all
unto his brethren.
poor and needy.
of what might be done in any future war; and he was sure Captain Wentworth
O foul descent! that I, who erst contended 


I wish you had been there to see her behaviour.  And as to


Equal, have I to render thee, divine 
  Reynol. At closes in the consequence:
LORD, and have gone the way which the LORD sent me, and have brought

voice, "I felt the devil weakening my heart and my oath against
had much work to come by the boat: 27:17 Which when they had taken up,
and very frequently by what other people say of them,
Though changed in outward lustre, that fixed mind, 

but at last the drawing-room party did receive an augmentation.
be all right when Walter returns.  The girl he's engaged to was

all the inhabitants of the land shall hear of it, and shall environ us
we must kill a tidy number of them."

30:30 And to them which were in Hormah, and to them which were in
of a whole village of one thousand one hundred inhabitants.
4:21 Do thy diligence to come before winter. Eubulus greeteth thee,
Neuer to rise againe: Thy Mothers poyson'd:
captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.
themselves any victual.

7:10 For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the LORD, and
wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption: 1:31
once: how the knaue iowles it to th' grownd, as if it

6:40 Now, my God, let, I beseech thee, thine eyes be open, and let
mighty God.
17:16 Now therefore send quickly, and tell David, saying, Lodge not
bless you, in turning away every one of you from his iniquities.
When breeds of the most perfect mothers denote America,
melancholy notions about their hereafters.  In one word, Queequeg,


A broad and ample road, whose dust is gold 
revived the glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic

for as you went with Lady Dalrymple, you were in the seats of grandeur,
his; therefore the grand political maxim of the sea demands, that he
and interrupting, for a few moments, her busy labours for some one
The Genius, and the mortall Instruments
parched pulse, 17:29 And honey, and butter, and sheep, and cheese of
was nine feet high.


Thy circumnavigation of the world begin,
the packet; it was too surely so;--a note from Mrs. Weston to herself,
None wed the second, but who kill'd the first
spiritual topsy-turvydom symbolised by the paralytic who pursued
you, when thou shalt do that which is right in the sight of the LORD.
loved us, 2:5 Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us
cast forth the devil out of her daughter.
that he is killed, he shall rise the third day.
     Child:
And the beach-waves combing over the beach on my Eastern shore,

strong hand shall he drive them out of his land.
47:22 Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had
This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and
Zorah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men appointed with weapons of
Serious she was, very serious in her thankfulness, and in her resolutions;
"I have heard that Christianity keeps the key of virtue, and that

used sometimes to say very cutting things!  Selina, who is mild almost
"It was just between daybreak and sunrise of the morning of the
shalt despise their image.
nations; and the everlasting mountains were scattered, the perpetual
Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and
Then arranging his person in the basket, he gave the word for them to
be removed, but abideth for ever.
Of warring Spirits? how, without remorse, 
children of Israel.
than friendship.
ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:28 One kid of
Or emptiness, or fond impertinence: 

are ready to kill him.
meats?  7:20 And he said, That which cometh out of the man, that
ear Peter cut off, saith, Did not I see thee in the garden with him?

consumed, and fall in the land of Egypt; they shall even be consumed
He slowly rais'd himself from the bed on the floor,
"What is it my dear friend?  Something of a very unpleasant nature,

78:46 He gave also their increase unto the caterpiller, and their
it learned to catch the prey; it devoured men.
according to their several creeds, felt the full thunder of the
they already think me an unprincipled fellow, this letter
both of them away quickly, and came to a man's house in Bahurim, which
And at the brink of Chaos, near the foot 



because the LORD is with them, and the riders on horses shall be
Elinor had often wished for an opportunity of
to me.
left the room--"Well, I'm content with MY sentence.  Genius alone! for
Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's.  In the

If she were not at home , Mama would see to it that a fresh white rose was there . Sometimes , Mrs. Coolidge would close herself in the Green Suite on the second floor , and play the piano she had brought to the White House . Mama knew she was playing her son's favorite pieces and feeling close to him , and did not disturb her . All the rest of the days in the White House would be shadowed by the tragic loss , even though the President tried harder than ever to make his little dry jokes and to tease the people around him . A little boy came to give the President his personal condolences , and the President gave word that any little boy who wanted to see him was to be shown in . Backstairs , the maids cried a little over that , and the standing invitation was not mentioned to Mrs. Coolidge . The President was even more generous with the First Lady than he had been before the tragedy . He would bring her boxes of candy and other presents to coax a smile to her lips . He brought her shawls . Dresses were short in the days of Mrs. Coolidge , and Spanish shawls were thrown over them . He got her dozens of them . One shawl was so tremendous that she could not wear it , so she draped it over the banister on the second floor , and it hung over the stairway . The President used to look at it with a ghost of a smile . Mrs. Coolidge spent more time in her bedroom among her doll collection . She kept the dolls on the Lincoln bed . At night , when Mama would turn back the covers , she would have to take all the dolls off the bed and place them elsewhere for the night . Mama always felt that the collection symbolized Mrs. Coolidge's wish for a little girl . Among the dolls was one that meant very much to the First Lady , who would pick it up and look at it often . It had a tiny envelope tied to its wrist . An accompanying sympathetic letter explained that inside the envelope was a name for Mrs. Coolidge's first granddaughter . Mama knew this doll was meant to help Mrs. Coolidge overcome her grief by turning her eyes to the future . The name inside the envelope was `` Cynthia '' . The Coolidges' life , after the death of their son , was quieter than ever . John was away at school most of the time . Mrs. Coolidge would knit , and the President would sit reading , or playing with the many pets around them . Now and then , the President would call for `` Little Jack , Master of the Hounds '' , which was his nickname for a messenger who had worked in the White House since Teddy Roosevelt's administration , and discuss the welfare of some one of the animals . It was part of Little Jack's work to look after the dogs . One White House dog was immortalized in a painting . That was Rob Roy , who posed with Mrs. Coolidge for the portrait by Howard Chandler Christy . To get him to pose , Mrs. Coolidge would feed him candy , so he enjoyed the portrait sessions as well as she did . I would like to straighten out a misconception about the dress Mrs. Coolidge is wearing in this painting . It is not the same dress as the one on her manikin in the Smithsonian . People think the dress in the picture was lengthened by an artist much later on . This is not true . The dress in the painting is a bright red , with rhinestones forming a spray on the right side . There is a long train flowing from the shoulders . Mrs. Coolidge gave Mama this dress for me , and I wore it many times . I still have the dress , and I hope to give it to the Smithsonian Institution as a memento , or , as I more fondly hope , to present it to a museum containing articles showing the daily lives of the Presidents -- if I can get it organized . But to get back to the Coolidge household , Mrs. Coolidge so obviously loved dogs , that the public sent her more dogs -- Calamity Jane , Timmy , and Blackberry . The last two were a red and a black chow . Rob Roy remained boss of all the dogs . He showed them what to do , and taught them how to keep the maids around the White House in a state of terror . The dogs would run through the halls after him like a burst of bullets , and all the maids would run for cover . Mama didn't know what to do -- whether to tell on Rob Roy or not -- since she had the ear of Mrs. Coolidge more than the other maids . But she was afraid the First Lady would not understand , because Rob Roy was a perfect angel with the First Family . Every day , when the President took his nap , Rob Roy would stretch out on the window seat near him , like a perfect gentleman , and stare thoughtfully out the window , or he would take a little nap himself . He would not make a sound until the President had wakened and left for the office ; ; then he would bark to let everyone know the coast was clear . His signal was for the other dogs to come running , but it was also the signal for Mama and the other maids to watch out . Rob Roy was self-appointed to accompany the President to his office every morning . Rob Roy was well aware of the importance of this mission , and he would walk in front of the President , looking neither to the right nor to the left . At dinner , lunch , or breakfast , the President would call out , `` Supper '' ! ! -- he called all meals supper -- after the butler had announced the meal . All the dogs would dash to get on the elevator with the President and go to the dining room . They would all lie around on the rug during the meal , a very pretty sight as Rob Roy , Prudence , and Calamity Jane were all snow-white . When Prudence and Blackberry were too young to be trusted in the dining room , they were tied to the radiator with their leashes , and they would cry . Mama tried to talk to them and keep them quiet while she tidied up the sitting room before the First Family returned . Finally , Mama did mention to Mrs. Coolidge that she felt sorry for the little dogs , and then Mrs. Coolidge decided to leave the radio on for them while she was gone , even though her husband disapproved of the waste of electricity . Mama was now the first maid to Mrs. Coolidge , because Catherine , the previous first maid , had become ill and died . Mrs. Coolidge chose Mama in her place . It was a high mark for Mama . Every First Family seems to have one couple upon whom it relies for true friendship . For the Coolidges , it was Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Stearns of Boston , Massachusetts , owners of a large department store . They seemed to be at the White House half the time . The butlers were amused because when the Stearns were there , the President would say grace at breakfast . If the Stearns were not there , grace would be omitted . Speaking of breakfast , the President inaugurated a new custom -- that of conducting business at the breakfast table . The word was that this too was part of an economy move on his part . A new bill had been passed under Harding that designated the Government , rather than the President , as the tab-lifter for official meals . So the President would make a hearty breakfast official by inviting Government officials to attend . He caused a lot of talk when he also chose the breakfast hour to have the barber come in and trim his hair while he ate . Mama said that if Presidents were supposed to be colorful , Mr. Coolidge certainly made a good president . He knew exactly how to be colorful ! ! The favorite guest of the house , as far as the staff was concerned , was Mr. Wrigley , the chewing gum king . The White House had chewing gum until it could chew no more , and every Christmas , Mr. Wrigley sent the President a check for $100 , to be divided among all the help . You can imagine that he got pretty good service . Another good friend of the Coolidges' was George B. Harvey , who was the Ambassador to Great Britain from 1921 to 1923 . He had been a friend of the Hardings , and continued to be invited by the Coolidges . The first royalty whom Mama ever waited on in the White House was Queen Marie of Rumania , who came to a State dinner given in her honor on October 21 , 1926 . She was not an overnight guest in the White House , but Mr. Ike Hoover , the chief usher , had Mama check her fur coat when she came in , and take care of her needs . Mama said she was one of the prettiest ladies she had ever seen . Mama was very patriotic , and one of the duties she was proudest of was repairing the edges of the flag that flew above the White House . Actually , two flags were used at the mansion -- a small one on rainy days , and a big one on bright days . The wool would become frazzled around the edges from blowing in the wind , and Mama would mend it . She would often go up on the roof to see the attendant take down the flag in the evening . She used to tell me , `` When I stand there and look at the flag blowing this way and that way , I have the wonderful , safe feeling that Americans are protected no matter which way the wind blows '' . Even when Mrs. Coolidge was in mourning for her son , she reached out to help other people in trouble . One person she helped was my brother . Mama had told her how Emmett's lungs had been affected when he was gassed in the war . He was in and out of Mount Alto Hospital for veterans any number of times . Taking a personal interest , she had the doctor assigned to the White House , Dr. James Coupal , look Emmett over . As a result , he was sent to a hospital in Arizona until his health improved enough for him to come back to Washington to work in the Government service . But again , there was danger that his lungs would suffer in the muggy Washington weather , and he had to return to the dry climate of the West to live and work . When Mrs. Coolidge was in mourning , she did not wear black . She wore grey every day , and white every evening . Mama knew that she was out of mourning when she finally wore bright colors . The President helped her a lot by selecting some lovely colored dresses to get her started . She opened the boxes with a tear in her eye and a sad smile on her face . On the social side , the chore Mama had at the formal receptions at the White House thrilled her the most . It was her job to stand at the foot of the stairs , and , just as the First Lady stepped off the last tread , Mama would straighten out her long train before she marched to the Blue Room to greet her guests with the President . Mama would enjoy the sight of the famous guests as much as anyone , and would note a gown here and there to tell me about that night . One night , Mama came home practically in a state of shock . She had stood at the bottom of the stairs , as usual , when Mrs. Coolidge came down , in the same dress that is now in the Smithsonian , to greet her guests . Mama stooped down to fix the train , but there was no train there ! ! She reached and reached around the dress , but there was nothing there . She looked up and saw that , without knowing it , Mrs. Coolidge was holding it aloft . Mrs. Coolidge looked down , saw Mama's horrified expression and quickly let the whole thing fall to the floor . Mama swirled the train in place , and not a step was lost . The Coolidges did not always live at the White House during the Presidency .
Italian language but imperfectly, and not being expert at reckoning the
salvation of the LORD.
Such was my state of mind that I did not question the possibility of this ; ; under the circumstances I was only too willing to confess all . I was nearly thirty at the time . I went to the hall in the afternoons only , on these preliminary matters . It was dark and , I sensed , very large ; ; only the counter at one end was lighted by a long fluorescent tube suspended directly above it . Sometimes I was aware of people moving about in the darkness . I would turn away from my writing in the hope of getting a good look at them but I never quite succeeded . A glimpse of three of four vague figures , at the most . Drifting here and there . Squatting , as if waiting . The pulsing glow of a cigarette . Since they could see me but I not them , their presence in the hall disturbed me . The clerk paid them no attention . This impressed me , until I realized how limited was his sphere of influence . His job simply consisted in registering new men . When the phone rang he answered it . His authority extended to the far edge of the counter , no further . None of the men hanging around the hall bothered to speak to him . Baldness was attacking his pate . He spoke to me in a gruff voice , an affectation which quite belied his personality . He wore his white shirt open at the neck , revealing a bit of scrawny pale chest underneath . It was obvious that he wished himself different from the sort of person he thought he was . But it was not easy for him and he often slipped . When one of the men in the hall behind us spat on the floor and scraped his boot over the gob of spittle I noticed how the clerk winced . I felt certain he was really a spineless little man . His hat ( the cause of his baldness ? ? ) hung on a hook on the wall , and underneath it I could see his tie , knotted , ready to be slipped over his head , a black badge of frayed respectability that ought never to have left his neck . The morning's tabloids were on the counter , and a stack of dog-eared men's magazines . On a shelf in the office behind the counter was a small radio dialed permanently on a station which broadcast only vulgar commercials and cheap popular music . Everything about the clerk was trivial . Once , pressing him , I learned that his job was only part-time , in the afternoons when nothing went on in the hall . Noticing my disappointment he attempted to salvage what scraps and shreds of authority he felt might still be clinging to his person . With distaste I saw him assume a pompous air . When he saw me coming he turned his radio off . He made a show of rearranging my forms on the shelf . He would pick up the ringing phone with studied negligence , then bark into it with gruff importance . What limited knowledge he possessed he forced upon me . In the mornings , I was informed , fluorescent tubes , similar to the one above the counter , illuminated the entire hall . They , and the two large fans which I could dimly see as daylight filtered through their vents , down at the far end of the hall , could be turned on by a master switch situated inside the office . He pointed out the switch to me and for a moment I foolishly believed that he would let deed follow words . I was shown , instead , a batch of white tickets of the sort handed out , he told me , every morning . Now , here was something of obvious importance to me , yet when I reached for the tickets he snatched them away from my hand . He couldn't afford to have anyone mess around with them , he said . Each of those tickets was of great value to its rightful recipient . I withdrew my hand . Later I would remember what this pompous little man had told me about the worth of a ticket . Having nothing else to do except wait for my forms to be processed , I gave myself over to speculations concerning the hall itself . When suitably lighted , what would it look like ? ? The presence of the two exhaust fans seemed to indicate that the hall could become crowded for air . One afternoon , upon receiving permission and the necessary instructions from the clerk , I had visited the toilet adjoining the hall . By counting the number of stalls and urinals I attempted to form a loose estimate of how many men the hall would hold at one time . For although I had crossed a corner of the hall on my way to the toilet I still could not tell for sure how far to the rear the darkness extended . I could observe the two fans down at the end , but their size in themselves meant nothing to me as long as I had no measure of comparison . I had for some time been hoping , in vain , for one of the dim figures to pass between the fan vents and myself . I knew that three or four of them were almost always present in the hall , but what they were doing , and exactly where , I could not tell . It was , I felt , possible that they were men who , having received no tickets for that day , had remained in the hall , to sleep perhaps , in the corners farthest removed from the counter with its overhead light . This light did not penetrate very far back into the hall , and my eyes were hindered rather than aided by the dim daylight entering through the fan vents when I tried to pick out whatever might be lying , or squatting , on the floor below . Also the clerk appeared to disapprove of my frequent curious glances back over my shoulder . No sooner would I turn my head away from the counter before he would address me , at times quite sharply , in order to bring back my attention . And I had hardly finished my business in the toilet on the aforementioned occasion when the lights in that place , like the hall lights controlled from the switch in the office , flicked off and on impatiently . This sort of petty vigilance annoyed me . I felt certain it was self-appointed . It sprang from a type of mentality I'd encountered often enough but certainly had not expected to find here . I decided to see no more of the clerk until the processing of my papers was completed . I felt strongly attached to the hall , however , and hardly a day passed when I did not go to look at it from a distance . I lived in a state of suspense because of it . I could not cling to my past nor did I wish to . I had signed it off on the forms . My future lay solely with the hall , yet what did I know about the hall at this point ? ? Although I had been inside it I had not yet seen it functioning . I wished to prepare myself but did not even know what sort of clothes I ought to be wearing . I did not despair , however ; ; far from it ! ! I was constantly searching for clues around the neighborhood of the hall . Though only a relatively short walk separated it from my own part of town , its character was wholly foreign to me . Large warehouses flanked the street on which the hall fronted . The river was only a few blocks away but an unbroken line of piers prevented me from seeing it . Sometimes I noticed the tops of ships' masts and funnels reaching above the pier roofs . The sounds issuing from beyond -- winches whirring , men shouting -- indicated great activity and excited me . The hall , on the other hand , appeared lifeless and deserted on these long waterfront afternoons . It resembled nothing I'd ever seen before . Its front was windowless , but irregularities in the masonry might be an indication that windows , now blinded , had once looked out upon the street . I kept circling the block hoping to see , from the street behind it , the rear of the hall . But it was not a tall structure and other buildings concealed it . For weeks I wandered about this neighborhood of warehouses and garages , truck terminals and taxi repair shops , gasoline pumps and longshoremen's lunch counters , yet never did I cease to feel myself a stranger there . I returned to the hall , despite my dislike for the clerk . As I had expected , he insisted that my visits to the hall would do nothing to further the process of my application . Meanwhile spring had passed well into summer . At last , when I put it to him directly , the clerk was forced to admit that the delay in my case was unusual . When I asked him what , if anything , I could do about it , he surprised me by referring me to the director of the hall . I could consult this personage on any weekday morning , though not before ten o'clock . The clerk impressed this upon me : that I should not arrive in the hall before ten o'clock . When I went for my interview with the director I saw why . Although it was dark as usual I could see that the hall had only recently contained a great many people . Cigarette butts littered the floor . The big fans were going , drawing from the large room the remnants of stale smoke which drifted about in pale strata underneath the ceiling . I had felt the draft they were making while mounting the stairs . The staircase itself seemed still to be echoing the heavy footfalls of many men . I stopped by the counter . No one was behind it , but in the rear wall of the office I noticed , for the first time , a door which had been left partially open . Past it I could see part part of a desk , a flag in a corner , a rug on the floor . The director's office . I rapped my knuckles on the counter . The director came to the door . I was at once disappointed , although just what I had expected him to look like I could not have explained . He was a man in his late forties , with graying hair , of medium height ; ; he looked dapper in a lightweight summer suit , brown silk tie and green-tinted soft collar . He wore perforated , white-topped shoes ; ; they somehow made me expect to see him launch into a vaudeville tapdance routine any moment . But he came toward me sedately enough , showed me around the counter , offered me a seat inside his office , then walked to a file cabinet and got out my application . I had the impression that he had read my forms , perhaps several times . He did not look at them now . As he lowered himself on the chair behind his desk I wondered what this dapper , slightly ridiculous man could possibly have to do with the workings of the hall . He spoke , in a voice as immaculate as his appearance . Why had I registered ? ? Begging my pardon , he must express his astonishment over seeing a person of my background applying at the hall . He had looked over my forms and was impressed by what he had seen there ; ; indeed , my scholastic qualifications were such that he , a college graduate himself , must envy me them . Was I sure , he asked , that I knew what I was applying for ? ? What sort of men I would come into contact with , at the hall ? ? These questions did not surprise me ; ; I felt certain that the director , like the afternoon clerk , seldom moved beyond the counter , that the hall , to them , was a jungle , a dark and unwelcome place . Though I doubted that he would understand me , I told the director my motives for applying . I had always , I said , hankered after working hard with my hands . This desire , I went on , growing voluble as my conviction was aroused , had mounted at such a rate recently that I now found its realization necessary not only to my physical but also to my spiritual wellbeing . To this effect I had already severed all connections which bound me to my former existence .
MacIan broke out with a queer and living voice.

The Tiger sprang to eat the Brahmin, but the Brahmin said,--
Lucillius.
all the people that follow me.
was the end of it!"
From his strong hold of Heaven, high over-ruled 

perhaps be in HIS head when the acquaintance between
things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices
"You may believe how glad we all were to see them,"
image of him that created him:
but their marriages had made a material difference in

But knowledge is as food, and needs no less 

as had been the usual yearly custom.  But these measures,

even all the curses that are written in the book which they have read

do is to pick them. It might be worse."
fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken: 24:30
on his side and jumped out.
the end of the world is more actual than the world it ends.  I

Captain Wentworth never meeting anywhere.  They did not like each other,
For I know very well that I and robust love belong among you,

had suffered for Marianne.  She found that she had been
live together.  It was impossible for any one to be more
so pure.  They afforded her no companion that could make

8:31 Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye
passover to the LORD, let all his males be circumcised, and then let
And from within the golden lamps that burn 
joint, as he wrestled with him.
aside with his floundering feet.  A thing altogether incredible were
the nice mince pies?  I can easily believe that she is happy whilst she

When the summons is made, when the answer that waited thousands
That you doe lye so late?
for Mrs. Perry herself mentioned it to my mother, and the Coles
After school in the evening, as he was standing silently beside Hardy,
craft canted over her spasmodic gunwale into the sea.  Thus they
We sha'n't hear your voices or the pipe when you have turned the corner
All the channels of the city streets they're flooding,


Noiseless as mists and vapors,

Kings.
his wickedness.
cords, and made of cedar, among thy merchandise.
Charles, in his real concern and good nature, would go home with her;
heart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach; 10:9 That if thou
could have transgressed none, still remained some weeks
ground; he bringeth it even to the dust.
see them henceforward with the closest observance; and wretchedly
24:16 The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither
O day and night, passage to you!
(for still her resolution held of never marrying)--the honour, in short,
fowls; they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle,
Her mother, still confident of their engagement, and relying

feast; or, that he should give something to the poor.

be surrounded by an eager circle, all waiting to be served; holding
 Where our table with cherries and nuts is spread:
    of suns left,)
"I am afraid, ma'am, that it is not perfectly understood.
impossible, he swam so fast and furious.  What then remained?
Her husband, for I view far round, not nigh, 
Wonder not, sovran Mistress, if perhaps 
3:11 And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz
offering in your generations.
9:48 And Abimelech gat him up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people
he was very much disposed to think Miss Taylor had done as sad


"I'm afraid, sir," said the sergeant with restraint, "I'm afraid
O I see life is not short, but immeasurably long,
By gis, and by S[aint]. Charity,
gates of what might have been a park, that they began gradually to
thou mayest pluck the ears with thine hand; but thou shalt not move a
Following his track (such was the will of Heaven) 

Book IV                                                          
3:13 But ye, brethren, be not weary in well doing.
There is no endowment in man or woman that is not tallied in you,
upon? not this stupid snorer, who is dreaming of gipsies, if he is
LORD, Thou shalt not build me an house to dwell in: 17:5 For I have
of Colonel Brandon's--can it be true?--has he really given
13:10 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzza, and he smote

And gavest me as thy perfect gift, so good, 


lazy dog!  See what you've done for me--look!--look, look, I say!"

the owner of Donwell Abbey.  She had an opportunity now of speaking
boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a coward.  He will

people that thou hast despised? go out, I pray now, and fight with
Which none of the princes of this world knew: for had they known it,
She had had it from Mrs Wallis herself, which did not seem bad authority.
God was very heavy there.
36:22 One board had two tenons, equally distant one from another: thus

was not in his senses when he talked in that manner.  Nothing, however,


burnt offering and the meat offering; as the LORD commanded Moses.
lunatics.  Compared with the general public, I might positively be
Sole king, and of his kingdom lose no part 
than that which is appointed you.
been attached to it--for they were slack--because some play to the
He had been run through the body.
ever--that's poz.
for my part, I think they are a vast addition always."
formed on mistaken grounds, and that by requiring her
Justus, and Matthias.
no exertions would be necessary, their home might be hers for ever;
Vnlesse the deed go with it. From this moment,
inside!"
It was soon after this conversation with the attorney that Mr. Oakly
"My dear Harriet, I perfectly remember the substance of what I
27:17 Which may go out before them, and which may go in before them,
worst, had almost spitted the lunger when a shrill, small cry
9:2 And, behold, six men came from the way of the higher gate, which
15:21 For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection

O to draw you to me, to plant on you for the first time the lips of
      'Tis for a thousand pound!"                 (Exit Talbot.)
thee an house for thine holy name cometh of thine hand, and is all
make THEIR eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even
looking in the butler's face, which was a deeper scarlet than usual, he
of greatness, meaning only to shew off in higher style her own very
You had but that opinion of your selfe,

To mortal men, he, with his horrid crew, 
  "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
offer salt.
glistening for a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank.  Then once
said, in a mixture of bad Italian and English--"I need not look at the
why, old fellow, I never lent it you before."
suspicions of an improper attachment to Mr. Dixon, which she had
So high above the circling canopy 
wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all
16:10 And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavoured to
have told me of it, to have given me the power of clearing

and two children; and, on Anne's appearing, greeted her with--
where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as
as a separation.  I am quite of your opinion.  I know what it is,
the sea, which cannot be measured nor numbered; and it shall come to
the line across my neck was a line of blood.
their legs, those old astronomers were wont to mount to the apex, and
the Indian's, considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of
telling the matters of the war unto the king, 11:20 And if so be that
Equal in number to that Godless crew 

Exeunt.
towards them.  He turned round on their coming in,
the thrusting of a body behind a door could be done in an instant--
what it was to be the unsuccessful head of a party.  He heard in his turn
   Ham. Ile watch to Night; perchance 'twill wake againe
him of the same promise: 11:10 For he looked for a city which hath
Mr. Weston, on his side, added a virtue to the account which must
and drank wine before the thousand.
"I never saw any gentleman's handwriting"--Emma began, looking also
in the good Bishop.  For truly, the Right Whale's mouth would
7:20 Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob, and the mercy to Abraham,

bailer, is set apart for that purpose.  Your hat, however, is the
The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a
Euen with the Sword that kill'd thee
thine enemies out of thy sight, and have made thee a great name, like

to give the old country a fact or two.  Yes, sir, John Boulnois


your situation would have been pitiable, indeed."
and the Hamathite.
unto Judah, of the seed which the LORD shall give thee of this young
her fair, lovely, amiable friend.  "Did she know?--had she
thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me?  the words
25:11 And this whole land shall be a desolation, and an astonishment;
Alarmed by the rapid progress of these evils, Mr. and Mrs. Montague, who,

8:11 Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
28:26 And thy carcase shall be meat unto all fowls of the air, and
and commander to the people.
9:6 And in Shushan the palace the Jews slew and destroyed five hundred
   Cas. And dy'd so?
sit upright on the sofa, and began to hope she might be able
Nightgown.
to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had
So were I equall'd with them in renown, 
I will go stay with her who waits for me, and with those women that
The Fountain.
wicked is little worth.
historical story of Jonah and the whale.  But then there were some
never blessed her before.  How improperly had she been acting
Of his associate:  He together calls, 
Marianne's, as before.  Sometimes she could believe
Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that
death, I refuse not to die: but if there be none of these things
"I think there are few places with such society as Highbury.

earthquake, and seems to substantiate the imputation by stating that


trees, and hid himself in the pile.
   3. Almost a mile: but he does vsually,
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down
all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.
devil, and had the legion, sitting, and clothed, and in his right
23:19 Thou shalt not lend upon usury to thy brother; usury of money,

blotting paper.  Some gamesome wights will tell you that they have to
with ravished Europa clinging to his graceful horns; his lovely,
just setting out to market, to call at Grant's gate, and, if he was at
Of hissing through the hall, thick swarming now 
4:13 And when he came, lo, Eli sat upon a seat by the wayside

Of Sennaar, and still with vain design, 
Turn from lands retrospective recording proofs of the past,
the Australian boomerang.  You'll see some of them in the Major's study."
With a gesture that revealed the shop-walker, he led Syme down a
tormented sleep, as if Starbuck's voice had caused the long dumb


previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho.  According to this
 While the lion old
Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among


great kindness, and repenteth him of the evil.

used to see.  Whenever James goes over to see his daughter, you know,
to our race, was worried--especially about money.  He was half grey
I decided to see the situation through. Consequently it was to meet
"I see no probability in it, unless you have any better foundation

the one who can do that shall be acknowledged the more powerful."
leading them quickly across the parade, he presented them to the
"This is nonsense!" said the second gentleman. "I for one have
And none but you shall understand the true thing that it tells--
Embellished; thick with sparkling orient gems 

On the fringe of the amused throng of white onlookers stood a young woman of remarkable beauty and poise . She munched little ginger cakes called mulatto's belly and kept her green , somewhat hypnotic eyes fixed on a light-colored male who was prancing wildly with a 5-foot king snake wrapped around his bronze neck . The youth with the snake had a natural pride and joy of life which appealed to the woman . Lithe and muscular , he had well-molded features , and his light color told of the European ancestors who had been intimate with the slave women of his family . The haughty white girl turned to a distinguished , hawk-faced man standing at her side and murmured : `` Look at your watch , Col. Garvier . It is almost time for and calinda to begin '' . Col. Henri Garvier was one of New Orleans' most important and enlightened slave owners . He chuckled and gave the signal for the dance to start . The slaves ran gaily to the center of Congo Square and gathered around a sweaty youth they called Johnny No-Name . Johnny vigorously pounded two bleached steer bones against the gourd which served as his drum . He showed his gleaming tusks of teeth and bellowed incoherently , his brass earrings jangling discordantly as he shook and trembled in ecstasy . The drummer flogged the gourd with frantic intensity as the dancers began the calinda , a sensual gyration which had long been a favorite of voodoo practitioners and their disciples in the Louisiana slave compounds . The dance was of Haitian origin . The white girl with the penetrating green eyes sipped the lemonade handed to her by a handsome man of about 30 , who had coppery skin and beetling eyebrows . He was possessive in his manner and , though a slave , obviously was educated after a fashion and imitated the manners of his owners . He proudly wore the blue livery of her house , for the girl was Madame Delphine Lalaurie , wife of the prominent surgeon , Dr. Louis Lalaurie , who bore one of the South's oldest and most cherished names . Delphine was a pace-setter in high society . She was a top horsewoman and one of the city's most gracious hostesses . Although New Orleans was not to learn of it for a spell , she also was a sadist , a nymphomaniac and unobtrusively mad -- the perpetrator of some of the worst crimes against humanity ever committed on American soil . Madame Lalaurie gestured with her riding crop toward the 20-year-old youth who was stomping and writhing with the king snake still draped over his bare shoulders . The slender , handsome fellow was called Dandy Brandon by the other slaves . He was gifted with animal magnetism and a potent allure for women of any race . But Dandy had had little experience with girls on his master's plantation in Bayou St. John . Shy , actually , he avoided feminine overtures and seemed truly ignorant of the girls' desires when they sought to make liaisons with him in the open fields , in carriages and in boathouses . This young slave was therefore quite unprepared when Delphine Lalaurie signaled that she wanted him to draw near . The woman eyed the youth with the avidity a coin collector might display toward a rare doubloon which is not yet in his collection . `` What is your name , boy ? ? Come a bit closer . I won't bite , you know '' . He gaped at Madame Lalaurie and sniffed the Paris perfume which emanated from her . Then he smiled shyly . `` My name is Dandy Brandon , missy . I belong to Master Alexander Prieur '' . She said with intense feeling : `` Come near , let me feel your arms . You look quite strong and healthy to me , Dandy '' . Mrs. Lalaurie impatiently propelled the slave toward her waiting carriage . Lifting her skirts , she climbed in , never relinquishing her grip on his arm . The woman seemed utterly unafraid of the snake which coiled on the floor in a torpor . Once inside the luxuriosly-upholstered landau , she drew the curtains and proceeded to give the startled youth the kind of physical examination usually reserved for army inductees . Satisfied at last , and after a few amorous gambits on her part which convinced Delphine that Dandy was capable of learning new arts , she opened the window and called to her liveried driver . This was the big man with the proprietory air and the beetling , shaggy eyebrows . `` Aristide ! ! I want you to find Monsieur Prieur at once and give him this money for the boy's purchase . There's $600 in gold in this chamois sack . If the old fool argues about the price , tell him I shall order my husband not to treat him as a patient any longer . Prieur has gout and depends on Louis' pills and bleedings . Besides , he owns 300 slaves . One less shouldn't matter to him '' . Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought in chains years before from his native Sierra Leone , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat . His bold eyes raked the woman , and a perceptive spectator might sense that there was more to their relationship than that of slave to owner . `` Another youth , Madame '' ? ? The coachman said softly . `` This one is a tender chicken , oui ? ? Such delicate beauty , such fine flesh . It will rip and shred easily for Madame '' . `` Be quiet , Devol ! ! You are forgetting your place '' . The tall coachman walked off briskly in search of Alexander Prieur . Delphine Lalaurie took the reins in her gloved hands and drove Dandy Brandon -- cowering in the back seat of the carriage -- to her mansion at 677 Perdido Street . Dr. Louis Lalaurie stood on the veranda at the head of the driveway and watched his carriage as it approached the pillared mansion . Dandy , curiosity overcoming his apprehensions , peered out at the doctor from the window of the vehicle . He saw a pint-sized man with a graying spade beard and an unusually large head . Dr. Lalaurie wore a maroon smoking jacket , and his myopic eyes were blurry and glistened behind thick octagonal lenses . He was about 50 years old . `` Another young man , my dear ? ? Really , you are most indiscreet to drive him here yourself '' , he said , frowning with displeasure . Delphine presented her cheek for a kiss , and the physician pecked it like a timid rooster . `` Dandy is to be our house guest , Louis . I want the room in the attic prepared for him He is a most unusual lad , quite precocious in many ways . He deserves a better life than just rotting away on the Prieur plantation '' . `` Quite so , my dear . His room will be ready shortly '' . The physician led the horses to the stable after a cursory glance at the cringing slave . Had Dandy been older or wiser , instinct might have warned him that he would be well advised to flee from the Lalauries' tender care if he valued his life . But he liked the smell of Delphine's perfume . Besides , her endearments and caresses in the carriage had been new and stirring experiences to the simple youth . Also , he was weary of plantation drudgery and monotony . So Dandy Brandon trustingly entered the house with Delphine Lalaurie and trudged up the rear steps to the attic room which was to be his new home . Airless and dingy though it was , the attic represented luxury to a slave who had led a wretched life with six brothers and sisters and assorted relatives in a shanty at Bayou St. John . He bounced exuberantly on the sagging bed and was even more delighted when Madame Lalaurie -- after closing the door -- showed the slave that the bed was designed for something other than slumber . It was just as well that the ignorant Dandy enjoyed himself to the hilt that first evening , for the room was to become his prison cell . When he finally left the sinister mansion on Perdido Street , he was carried out in a coroner's basket . Just six weeks after Dandy Brandon's arrival at the mansion , the little surgeon and his svelte young wife gave their annual open house and ball , to which only New Orleans' oldest and wealthiest families were invited . A stringed orchestra played softly behind the potted palms , and Delphine circulated graciously among her guests , chatting airily of the forthcoming races , the latest fashions from Paris , and Louisiana politics . Suddenly there was a commotion upstairs , a despairing boyish shriek , and the strains of the waltz faltered and died as the musicians and guests gaped at an apparition descending the marble staircase . It was Dandy Brandon , clad only in a bloody loincloth , emaciated and quaking as if the devil were breathing hard on him . The lad's once superb body was a mass of scars and welts . His pinched face showed the ravages of malnutrition . Feebly he pointed an accusing finger at Madame Lalaurie and shouted : `` Evil woman ! ! You did this you like to hurt to beat people I want to go home '' . These were the last words he ever uttered . Convulsively , he spat up some blood and collapsed into the arms of Senator Gaston Berche , crimsoning the frilly shirt and waistcoat the politician wore . Dr. Louis Lalaurie examined the inert form of the slave on the parquet dance floor and pronounced him dead . The ball broke up in confusion . Guests stared with horror at Madame Lalaurie and made speedy departures . Delphine stood like stone , her eyes alive with hate as she looked down at the sheeted corpse . But at the coroner's inquest Delphine told a forthright story . `` I saw the boy Dandy at the Congo Square festivities and felt sorry for him . It was our hope to educate him and to give him his freedom when the right time came , for he was a bright and friendly youth who seemed worthy of our interest . After I paid Monsieur Prieur for Dandy , I brought him home , but he was ill at ease and ran away the same night . How he returned in such a ghastly condition , or why , I cannot say . Dr. Lalaurie and I didn't even know he was in the house until the night of our ball when he came down the stairs '' . She daubed at her swimming eyes with a lacy handkerchief and said with obvious emotion : `` That poor boy ! ! He must have fallen in with evil companions , for he was a simple youth and quite trusting and inexperienced . Ruffians must have robbed and beaten him before bringing him back to our house to die . Such a pitiful end '' ! ! Though the slave's dying words about the woman troubled the coroner's panel , Dandy's accusation was adjudged an aberration by the jury and disregarded . The Lalauries were at the top rung of the social ladder , and even a jury didn't feel privileged to doubt the veracity of so illustrious a lady . Moreover , runaway slaves frequently got into serious trouble in New Orleans' dives . So the verdict was `` death at the hands of a person or persons unknown '' , and the elite of the city , accepting Delphine's testimony , welcomed her and the doctor back into the fold . Once again life went its serene way -- soirees , fox hunts , balls and dinners . The excitement over Brandon's bizarre death abated and Madame Lalaurie's stock soared when she resumed her self-imposed chores of visiting the poor and bringing cakes and comfort to destitute patients in the county hospital . Then , on July 2 , there occurred another incident which set tongues to wagging at a furious clip . Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance out of her parlor window at dusk one evening and beheld an amazing sight . The manservant Devol and his mistress , Delphine Lalaurie , were pursuing a young girl -- an octoroon of cameo-like beauty -- across the front lawn of the Lalaurie mansion . The girl was not more than 16 . She was nude to the waist and her tumbled abundance of black hair did not conceal the knife slashes on her back . The bleeding girl was tiring fast ; ; the coachman and Delphine were gaining on her as she raced down Perdido Street . The fugitive cried out in an oddly sibilant voice : `` Help me , somebody ! ! They have pulled out all my teeth and now she will carve out my tongue with her hacksaw ! !
16:1 Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 16:2 Son of man,
8:17 For, behold, I will send serpents, cockatrices, among you, which
In other part stood one who, at the forge 
All are written to me, and I must get what the writing means.
the works were in full operation certainly gave forth no very
Lebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed
and a smelling bottle.)
   1. Then stand with vs:
5:21 And when they heard that, they entered into the temple early in
through Behring's straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and
things to harass him, as I'll explain in a minute.  He was a soldier
Looke, in this place ran Cassius Dagger through:
"Oh, sir! we will come the instant, the very instant the bell rings; you
that people who had extensive grounds themselves cared very little
That I do fawne on men, and hugge them hard,
3:14 These things write I unto thee, hoping to come unto thee shortly:
   Ham. Come, come, and sit you downe, you shall not
His brooding wings the Spirit of God outspread, 
didn't think of that. He gave one more frightened look down at those big

When could they say (till now) that talk'd of Rome,
Rhymes and rhymers pass away, poems distill'd from poems pass away,
conscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end sink thee
By God! I will accept nothing which all cannot have their
his selfishness, and his conceit, to rest with complacency
the Jews, should return upon his own head, and that he and his sons
there was hardly a day in which I did not catch a glimpse

stroke; depend upon it!"--and so saying I was unmethodically rushing
the brier shall come up the myrtle tree: and it shall be to the LORD
"Emma, my love, you said that this circumstance would not now make
that righteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed
ploughed fields he was crossing lay Pilgrim's Pond, for which
Thousands of years ago, many years before David lived, there was a very
treasurer, even unto Shebna, which is over the house, and say, 22:16


Whale," as some craft are nowadays christened the "Shark," the
head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heaven

worshipping him, and desiring a certain thing of him.
and tried to be cool and unconcerned.  Her distress returned,
the first day of the month, that the tabernacle was reared up.
feasting, and a good day, and of sending portions one to another.
not disposed to be pleased with Louisa at that instant, for two reasons;
to smile, began--
Anne, satisfied at a very early period of Lady Russell's meaning
had its influence upon the President's cabman, who began to look
To seeke you at your house. Well, I will hie,
counterpane--God pity his poor mother!--it will be the ruin of my
way.
a coldness and displeasure in your manner that made me
he had never suffered any thing like it--almost wished he had staid
16:9 Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath the
Then hear thou from the heavens their prayer and their supplication,
Know whether I be dextrous to subdue 
The voices died away, and dropped off one by one.  They had each provided
she then paused to lower her spare boats to pull all around her; and

him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly;

they which are written in the Lamb's book of life.
Ready, collected here, a freer, vast, electric world, to be
creature was dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or
before in the word of the truth of the gospel;
Silence, and with these words attention, won. 

40:23 And the gate of the inner court was over against the gate toward
Then with the knowledge of death as walking one side of me,

in trouble.

17:7 And they shall no more offer their sacrifices unto devils, after
She always had something to say, and she liked to hear herself say it.
passing over the sleeper, from one to the other.  Meanwhile, upon

the words of the pure are pleasant words.
taking the sword in his hand and wiping out his enemy.  My name
"My dearest child," said her mother, laughing,
     "What authority have you for what you say?" asked Lord Pooley
David said, God hath broken in upon mine enemies by mine hand like the
legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even as ships
of mortification preparing for them!  Mrs Clay's selfishness was
But looke, Amazement on thy Mother sits;
She walked eagerly on as she spoke; and Elinor,
From that of myself without which I were nothing,
The mother's voice in lullaby, the sister's care, the happy childhood,
cathedrals, yes, even the Eternal Church on earth is new compared
who is a friend of mine) that he was found close up to the Epsom
your Bonet to his right vse, 'tis for the head

Several Boys.  We have not paid, but here's our money.

I should do Brutus wrong, and Cassius wrong:
Ma femme! for the brood beyond us and of us,
in every panel on the wall or plate on the table.  And she would find

27:22 And Moses did as the LORD commanded him: and he took Joshua, and

looking on the fresh lush grass of summer"'

9:25 He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not:

Behold, the sea itself,
27:7 Fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was that which thou
(Which happily foreknowing may auoyd) Oh speake.

44:2 And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the

He paid her only the compliment of attention; and she felt
know their sort, master.  Atheists!  Don't talk to me about 'un.

sanctified for ever: and serve the LORD your God, that the fierceness
       Through the mosses bare,

he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
us both."
    chants--and now I have found it,
Hunger and thirst constraining; drugged as oft, 
Behold, I will bring upon this city and upon all her towns all the
astray, which went astray away from me after their idols; they shall
7:22 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 7:23 Speak unto the
princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against thee.



Will I with Wine, and Wassell, so conuince,
unto great honour; but, lo, the LORD hath kept thee back from honour.
"Or yet again," tapped Syme, "it is positive, as is the passionate
side of the hill which led immediately to their garden gate.

Not beare the knife my selfe. Besides, this Duncane
"This is an alliance which, whoever--whatever your friends may be,
a visit at Enscombe in January; and that Frank's coming depends upon

off in a way that left the balance of approbation much in his favour.
alive.  Then he recovered himself, and remembered his affairs.
whom she was sedulously guarding from the tyranny of the two children
caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the
cometh to shame.
The Marquis put up his hand with a curious air of ghastly
To grace in Captiue bonds his Chariot Wheeles?
murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.
except that I am now going to throw them both behind the fire,
and they shall burn them with fire seven years: 39:10 So that they
That at his will he may doe danger with.
very well might.  So I am sure you will give us your testimony
Park--it was the evening of a dance--in which I alluded
with all your holy things.

from what I now do, if I am not as ready to be useful
"Between Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Fairfax?  Oh! yes, perfectly.--

seek out a man, who is a cunning player on an harp: and it shall come
in drawing.  There are niches in the walls in several places, from which
In about half an hour her mother returned, and though
I honour myself, my honour is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth
Were the precedent dim ages debouching westward from Paradise so long?
"Oh! he must and shall come back," cried Sir John.
10:8 For he saith, Are not my princes altogether kings?  10:9 Is not
2:16 So it came to pass, when all the men of war were consumed and


thing.
23:30 And his servants carried him in a chariot dead from Megiddo, and
I fear, hath ventured from the deep, to raise 
be no marriage at all, but that would be nothing.
Judah for me, filled the bow with Ephraim, and raised up thy sons, O
Just for unjust; that, in such righteousness 
according to thy word.
swallow-tail, and drive down a beaver; so.  Halloa! whew! there goes
patch on his right eye, who is come from Bristol, and wants to speak a
as he could afford, and should give Charles Hayter the promise of it.
out of humour.  Some people were always cross when they were hot.


to set your heart at ease as to Mrs. S.--_My_ representation, you see,
he that judgeth me is the Lord.
without expression; but a lucky contraction of the brow
As whom the fables name of monstrous size, 
in many waters, and his king shall be higher than Agag, and his
6:21 And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
And writhed him to and fro convolved; so sore 

"Don't run into anything," said Evan, immovably.
his strength.  Ah, God! what trances of torments does that man endure


brought round into the street before the Doctor's house. When they
Which weighes vpon the heart?
the green-house, where the loss of her favourite plants,
don't see her."  Laura came forward.  "You are too PRUDENT to throw away
"Engaged since October,--secretly engaged.--It has hurt me,
"What's the matter?"
the brasen altar shall be for me to enquire by.

The earth good and the stars good, and their adjuncts all good.
when Emma caught their eye.--Immediately they crossed the road
And sowed with stars the Heaven, thick as a field: 
And MacIan answered, with an adamantine stupidity:

15:27 And they came to Elim, where were twelve wells of water, and
"Oh yes! I went.  I was very well yesterday; nothing at all
the prisoners, Go forth; to them that are in darkness, Shew
tread him under foot: then shall his yoke depart from off them, and
}  To You
The President's cabman seemed to be regaining some control over

flies.
Such things in general cannot be too short."
An old man gathering youthful memories and blooms that youth itself cannot.



Israel; They shall eat their bread with carefulness, and drink their
Cetology," says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820.
118:14 The LORD is my strength and song, and is become my salvation.
48:29 This is the land which ye shall divide by lot unto the tribes of
they walked not in my statutes, and they despised my judgments, which
herself, "is it possible that I have sold what I promised to keep for
a decanter on the man's bald head as suddenly as I had seen him smash
That ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the
To execute fierce vengeance on his foes, 

of unresisted grief in silence.
up.
abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking, and dancing, because

 Or how shall we gather what griefs destroy,
sail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of the
ill and weary that they could not bring up families, and so the race
then letting it escape.  But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant
Lucy exclaimed with a deep sigh,



As from her outmost works, a broken foe, 


     A faint, refined smile seemed to pass over Seymour's features.
not carnal?  3:5 Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers
The schooner near by sleepily dropping down the tide, the little

And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.
a bit.'
Mary was much alarmed, and not without reason, at this speech; for she
honour is humility.

     of that esteem.  That I should ever have meant more
sockets three.
for I have a notion she is always rather sickly.
9:40 For he that is not against us is on our part.
Though Cecilia's companions might not know all this in theory, they
They be gone over the brook of water. And when they had sought and
I wish for no change.  I never could have been happy
are not able to stand without, neither is this a work of one day or
tiny stairs to his own home. But the little door was locked, and the
swindlers. I suppose the proportion is pretty equal all over the
father, and come.
upon the necks of them that are slain, of the wicked, whose day is
Whom faithful Abraham due time shall call, 
trusted him to sell the fossils, that he would bring him half of what he

14:22 For I will rise up against them, saith the LORD of hosts, and
begged the Mouse to tell them something more.
48:27 And by the border of Zebulun, from the east side unto the west
In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of high broken
giving way to feelings which I had always been too much
and therefore I would not speak ill of her.  Besides, she is out of

And I will looke on both indifferently:
     Be Thou my Guide until I find,
"What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
watched them with pleasure while they were talking, and who
therefore what these things mean.
that we might be justified by faith.
"As to genius," said Francisco, honestly, "I have none.  All that I have
"Is there no one to help me?" were the first words which
As we take to the open--take to the deepest, freest waters.
Lively as he was, it seemed a liveliness that did not satisfy himself;
The aspiring Dominations:  Thou that day 

running after each other like a lot of confounded babies playing
she belongs to.  She will grow just refined enough to be uncomfortable

30:18 For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim, and
"Stand by to sway me up!" cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket.
March afarre off, and shout within.
hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. Then
be, that whatsoever is pleasant in thine eyes, they shall put it in
Were poore, and single Businesse, to contend
so firmly resolved within my self on doing right!
oven; that was what you sent for me about, I take it.
wedged in the chimney.  The other little fellow was up at the top at the
but bid her not mind it, and be sure not to say any thing to us
Since yet thy Cicatrice lookes raw and red
1:32 And king David said, Call me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the
She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little


Emma was quite at a loss.  The tone implied some old acquaintance--
And I dream'd I wander'd searching among burial-places to find him,
pace and kept up with her.  They were soon within
"Because, your Majesty," said the Crayfish, "I saw the Otter coming down
impudent little Chatterer the Red Squirrel shouted the same thing from
must be, it was necessary to be done, and Elinor therefore
14:1 And all the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and
and, behold, they be in Hazazontamar, which is Engedi.
announce the carriage being at the door; and Mrs. Jennings
and would spurn any body's assistance."
even as he appeared in black outline against the moonrise,
that he was weary.
some Eastern tribes use.  But it had come from no human hand."

Approaching gross and huge, in hollow cube 
had seen.


pure.
the fire would still be its ranked upstanding rigidity and a sort
same: and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, and
How provident he is; how far from thought 
The most effective fact in oratory is an unexpected change in the


under the great corner stone; you can just see her leg.  We cannot lift
alive by any other man."

healed them.
That ha's no rellish of Saluation in't,

of Jabeshgilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the
quickest succession; one gentleman only was standing there,
"Oh!" said Syme shortly. "You do yourselves well in drinks."
sackcloth.
whitish.  It resembled that perpendicular seam sometimes made in the
}  The First Dandelion
21:6 And the children of Gershon had by lot out of the families of the
"What do you mean?"
of the festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the
mortification--but I cannot.  I must feel--I must be


Edward is a very lucky man.--You will not mention the matter
What do I know of life? what of myself?
shall die of the pestilence.
Nebuzaradan, captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Babylon,
She was going there under the escort of a relative and old friend of hers,
His best of man, and gave him up to tears 
turned back upon the pursuers.
in the evening; and the Miss Dashwoods, at the particular
the rotten line--all dripping, too.  Mend it, eh?  I think we had
two and fifty years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jecholiah
treasures of the kings of Judah will I give into the hand of their

dash by, like a charge of crowned centaurs?  Not wholly unworthy of a
same wheels also turned not from beside them.
Persia bring forth by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and
will be done.
   Hor. Let him blesse thee too


arch I've got to go through next walking about at the other end of the
And how shall I deck my song for the large sweet soul that has gone?
and her own dear country, readily agreed to stay.
Loveit, in a lamentable tone, whilst the dog growled hideously, and
her mother to tell me what became of it.  Susan gave it to her father;
thee saying, Buy thee my field that is in Anathoth: for the right of
his brother, and judgeth his brother, speaketh evil of the law, and
17:15 And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back,

You will all be going soon I suppose; the whole party breaking up.
largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea shore.
fall the bar of the window, which roused her mistress.  "I'm sure I beg
found at its surface.  If, then, you properly put these statements
Corinth; 18:2 And found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus,
'Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently: 'it
    he stands,


In the Gentleman's Magazine of 1828, Dr. P. A. Nuttall, under the

19:24 I have digged and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of my
Soft! let me just murmur,
least.  That direful mishap was at the bottom of his temporary

earth, and shall say, Surely our fathers have inherited lies, vanity,

As here in careless trill, I and my recitatives, with faith and love,

In perfect phalanx to the Dorian mood 

Stood like a tower. His form had yet not lost 
12:8 And they took him, and killed him, and cast him out of the
    parlors and lecture-rooms?)
46:16 He made many to fall, yea, one fell upon another: and they said,
reckon I shall pocket.  Why, the collection at the last Montem, they say,
"No more sleep, I'm afraid," said Evan, in a heavy, almost
Egypt, divided by the river Nile 
cleanse the sanctuary: 45:19 And the priest shall take of the blood of
25:11 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without
that it is not sown, nor beareth, nor any grass groweth therein, like

16:16 Salute one another with an holy kiss. The churches of Christ
Haue we, as 'twere, with a defeated ioy,

the coins with nitric acid, that several of them were of gold, and
4:21 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye

their sakes therefore return thou on high.
among them; I the LORD have spoken it.
A rocky founded island--shores where ever gayly dash the coming,
14:30 A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness

21:2 And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God
30:21 And the children of Israel that were present at Jerusalem kept
see if she could have been changed for any of them.
brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have,

hands to a strange god;

7:3 And four great beasts came up from the sea, diverse one from
In the purlieus of Heaven; and therein placed 


perfect safety at her port without the occurrence of the least

This greeting on thy impious crest receive. 
strangely rumbles, he talks through his nose.  But then again, what
his friend very minute directions, or wrote to Broadwood himself.
shall die: shall we be consumed with dying?  18:1 And the LORD said
surroundings there is a scientific attempt at secrecy. I have an
Mr. Hopkins denied that he had ever received any such; but he was

window, and some of them hit her in the face. 'I'll put a stop to this,'
of mixed embarrassment and effrontery.  And as he was receiving Hardy's
THE LITTLE JACKALS AND THE LION
Battersby will enjoy this, of all things."


mode of treatment must procure, with a confidence which,
    Another view of man, my second brings;
instructive, or scandalous, which are necessary to the conversation of a
his fancies. With two impatient strides he overtook the man in the
drink offerings.
to see him; and Mr. Weston engaged to lose no time in writing,
accomplished, however, he turned round--when, good heavens! what a

officiating safely between Hartfield and the Vicarage, and every
the two corners of it, upon the two sides thereof, to be places for
(It may be I am destin'd to utter the loudest cries there, the
Rory (claps Talbot on the back).  Fifty-six friends, have you, Talbot?
was not a whit the worse for his tumble.  So I should ha' fell into a
mine!--The Parsee--the Parsee!--gone, gone? and he was to go
border round about: thus shalt thou cleanse and purge it.
it seemed as if he could not think so ill of any two persons'
to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion


Unheard by sharpest ear, unform'd in clearest eye or cunningest mind,
done, nothing will alter it.  Heroes, I give you the hospitality
8:4 Then the king held out the golden sceptre toward Esther. So Esther
almost entirely empty.  Among the accidental group of guests who
7:17 I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will
which, when it is victorious, has no pity, and so, when it is
"But it's out, it's out, papa," said Patty; "and the next time your
to be a considerable amendment; and though they all met at the Great House
gods?  31:31 And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was
Eyed them askance, and to himself thus plained. 


black stormy distance the ship is bearing down upon the scene.
And I send these words to Paris with my love,
now, at yon fine field of wheat.  Well, it was just as fine, and finer,
iniquity of our fathers: for we have sinned against thee.
you are grown up--that no matter how clever you are, sooner or later you
Joshua the son of Nun: for they have wholly followed the LORD.
kingdom was established greatly.
5:22 And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, LORD, wherefore hast
}  As If a Phantom Caress'd Me
you all cold; but I can go into my mother's room you know.  I dare
why the breasts that I should suck?  3:13 For now should I have lain
8:1 These are now the chief of their fathers, and this is the


when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
come back for a long, long time. At the next little pool the same thing
Special districts in Rhode island . It is not within the scope of this report to elaborate in any great detail upon special districts in Rhode Island . However , a word should be mentioned in regard to them as independent units of government . There are forty-seven special district governments in Rhode Island ( excluding two regional school districts , four housing authorities , and the Kent County Water Authority ) . These forty-seven special purpose governments have the authority to levy taxes , to borrow money , own property , sue and be sued , and in general to exercise normal corporate powers . Unlike cities and towns , however , they do not have to submit any financial statements to the state Bureau of Audits . It is not an exaggeration to say that the state government has little or no fiscal control over these units of government . In addition to the collection of service charges , the special districts levy annual property taxes of approximately $450,000 . Fiscal years in other states comparative data . A review of practices in other states regarding fiscal uniformity is pertinent to this report . Included in the findings are : 1 . Forty-six states , including Rhode Island , end their fiscal year on June 30 . The other four states end on varying dates : Alabama ( Sept. 30 ) , New York ( March 31 ) , Pennsylvania ( May 31 ) , and Texas ( August 31 ) . 2 . In sixteen states , the fiscal year ending of the cities ( June 30 ) is the same as that of the state : Alaska , Arizona , California , Delaware , Massachusetts , Montana , Nevada , New Mexico , North Carolina , North Dakota , Oklahoma , Oregon , Vermont , West Virginia , Wyoming , and Hawaii ) . 3 . In eleven states , the fiscal year of the cities ends on December 31 , while the state fiscal year ends on June 30 ( Arkansas , Colorado , Indiana , Kansas , New Hampshire , New Jersey , Ohio , South Dakota , Utah , Washington , and Wisconsin ) . 4 . In eight states whose fiscal years close on June 30 , a majority of their cities close their fiscal year on December 31 : : ( Georgia , Iowa , Kentucky , Maine , Maryland , Minnesota , Virginia , and South Carolina ) . 5 . One state , Alabama , closes its fiscal year on September 30 , and all cities in the state , with one exception , also close fiscal years on September 30 . 6 . Mississippi closes its fiscal year on June 30 , while all of its cities close their fiscal years on September 30 . 7 . Pennsylvania closes its fiscal year on May 31 . All of its cities close their fiscal years on December 31 . The remaining twelve states have varying fiscal years for the state , city and local governments . However , only Illinois , Oregon , Louisiana and Rhode Island have a situation in which the sundry units of government vary widely in relation to fiscal uniformity . Fiscal uniformity : advantages and disadvantages advantages . An excellent summary of advantages concerning the uniform fiscal year and coordinated fiscal calendars was contained in a paper presented by a public finance authority recently . He listed among the values of fiscal uniformity : 1 . The uniform fiscal year requires compliance with common sense administration of local finances : adoption of the budget , or financial plan , in advance of spending . 2 . The uniform fiscal year ensures conformance with another common sense rule , that of having cash in the bank before checks are drawn . It enables towns to make more economical purchases and to take advantage of cash discounts . 3 . The uniform fiscal year promotes more careful budgeting and strengthens control over expenditures . By fixing the tax rate in advance of spending , upper limits are set on expenditures . 4 . The uniform fiscal year brings the town's fiscal year into line with that of the schools , which expend the largest share of local disbursements . This greatly simplifies the town's bookkeeping and financial reporting . 5 . The uniform fiscal year eliminates interest charges on money borrowed in the form of tax anticipation notes . Furthermore , tax collections not immediately needed for current expenditures may be invested in short-term treasury notes , augmenting the town's miscellaneous revenues and reducing the tax levy . 6 . The uniform fiscal year facilitates inter-town comparison of revenues and expenditures . When towns have the same fiscal year it is relatively easy to make meaningful comparisons ; ; and as the cost of local government increases , the demand for such comparison also increases . Towns having different fiscal years are difficult to compare . Of all advantages , probably none is more important than the elimination of tax anticipation notes . Borrowing in anticipation of current taxes and other revenues is a routine procedure of the majority of municipalities at all times . It may be by bank loans , sale of notes or warrants , or by the somewhat casual method of issuance and registration of warrants . In any event it is a form of borrowing which could be and should be rendered unnecessary . Its elimination would result in the saving of interest costs , heavy when short-term money rates are high , and in freedom from dependence on credit which is not always available when needed most . This type of borrowing can be reduced to a minimum if quarterly installment payment of taxes is instituted and the first payment placed near the opening of the fiscal year . Any approach toward such a system looks toward saving and security . It should be noted that there are other and equally important reasons for establishing meaningful intergovernmental reporting bases on a uniform fiscal year . Both the federal and state governments commence their fiscal years on July 1 . Both units of government contribute increasingly large sums of money to the several local governments in this state as indicated below : It has been said that when local government revenues were mostly produced locally from the property tax , the lack of a uniform fiscal year was no great handicap ; ; but with the growth of state and federal fiscal aid , the emphasis on equalization , and the state-local sharing of responsibility for certain important functions , this is no longer true . The haphazard fiscal year calendar is an obstacle to the planning of clear and efficient state-local revenue and expenditure relationships . Disadvantages . Although there are many sound reasons for adopting uniform and coordinated fiscal years in Rhode Island , there are also certain difficulties encountered . These involve more the mechanics employed in adjusting to fiscal uniformity than they do actual disadvantages to the principle . One problem is a matter of shifting dates ; ; the other , is how to finance the transition . Little can be done about the changing of dates . This is an inherent part of adjusting fiscal calendars . It usually means a confused and disgruntled tax-paying public for a period of time . But cooperation and understanding between local officials and the citizenry help lessen this problem . The other problem is the matter of financing the transition period in the several cities and towns . This will be covered more fully later . It should be kept in mind that the ease or difficulty with which a town or city can convert to the proposed plan is directly dependent upon the financial condition of that town or city . Fortunately , there are no cities or towns in the state , with one or two possible exceptions that are in too difficult a position to finance the proposed change . Sacrifice will have to be made in some cases , but it is to the municipality's advantage to finance the change-over for a short period of time rather than pay interest on tax anticipation notes indefinitely . Adjusting the fiscal calendars The advantages of a uniform fiscal year and well synchronized fiscal and tax collection calendars are sufficiently great for Rhode Island municipalities to exert effort to secure them . The type of program desired can be determined by the nature and extent of the adjustments needed . Two features are immediately evident . First , the present situation is too varied to be systematized by any single formula . Second , the shift to a uniform July 1 to June 30 fiscal year will , of itself , improve the tax collection calendars of the great majority of cities and towns . There are at least two problems to consider : one is a matter of adjusting the fiscal calendar ; ; the other is how to finance the adjustments when necessary . The latter matter is considered in detail in a later section . Twelve cities and towns in Rhode Island presently indicate some plans to establish a uniform and/or coordinated fiscal tax year calendar . Plans vary from the `` talking stage '' to establishing special committees to accomplish this end . What is important here is that many of the cities and towns recognize the need for improved fiscal practices and are taking the initiative to obtain them . An analysis of the fiscal tax collection year calendars throughout the state indicates that transition may not be as painful as is commonly thought . However , it must be stressed that much depends upon the financial condition of the individual cities and towns involved . The adjustments needed to establish a uniform and coordinated fiscal tax collection year calendar throughout Rhode Island , based on a July 1 to June 30 year , are shown below . No adjustment needed . Six cities and towns are presently on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and have coordinated their tax collection year with it . No change is required for these towns . These municipalities include : Barrington , Lincoln , Middletown , Newport , North Kingstown , and South Kingstown . Adjustment of fiscal year . One town and one city , Coventry and East Providence , require an adjustment of their fiscal year only . This change will automatically adjust their tax collection year calendar so as to make all tax installments due and payable in the fiscal year collectible within that year . Adjustment of tax collection year . Six cities and towns are now on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and will need only to adjust their tax collection year calendar to establish uniformity . These cities and towns include Bristol , Glocester , Pawtucket , Cumberland , Central Falls , and Woonsocket . Simultaneous adjustments . Two cities to be considered , Providence and Cranston , are an enigma . Both have excellent integration of their fiscal tax collection year calendars . However , neither of these two cities is on the desired July 1 to June 30 fiscal year . The adjustment to a uniform and coordinated fiscal period could be accomplished relatively easily for them . In that both cities end their fiscal years on September 30 , they could levy taxes for an interim period of nine months , commencing with September 30 and ending with June 30 . These three installment dates would be : October 26 , January 26 , and April 25 ( Providence ) and November 15 , February 16 and May 15 ( Cranston ) . Both would start their new fiscal year on July 1 . Their tax collection calendar could then be : July 25 , October 26 , January 26 , and April 25 , ( Providence ) ; ; and August 15 , November 15 , February 17 , and May 15 , ( Cranston ) . Under this plan both Cranston and Providence would be on the uniform fiscal year but would still be using the same installment periods . Varying adjustments . The remaining twenty-three towns have fiscal years which end prior to June 30 . All of these towns will require adjustments of both their fiscal and tax collection years . Assuming an adjustment to the July 1 to June 30 fiscal year , the required adjustment of the tax collection years and the towns involved are shown in Table 3 . Methods of financing adjustments Aside from the matter of adjusting the fiscal and tax calendars , there is the problem of financing the adjustment when this is necessary . It should be emphasized strongly that adjustments in fiscal dates or adoption of interim budgets do not necessarily mean financing over and above normal governmental requirements . In many communities there is simply no financial problem ; ; it is only a matter of adjusting accounting methods , careful fiscal planning and management , or some like combination of techniques . In other municipalities the difficulties in overcoming the financial burden have been sufficiently great to dishearten proponents of fiscal year changes . Fortunately , such cases in Rhode Island are more the exception than the rule . As shown earlier in Table 1 , the several cities and towns use widely varied fiscal and tax collection calendars . In addition , no two Rhode Island communities are identical in relation to their over-all financial condition . These factors practically insure that no single financing formula is feasible ; ; each situation must be studied and a plan developed that takes into consideration such factors as the effect of the existing and prospective tax calendars , the financial condition of the treasuries , and the length of the transition interval . Suitable plans range from those that are very easy to develop to those that are difficult to formulate and require borrowing ranging from short-term serial notes to long-term bonds . The financial problem , where it exists , usually stems from the adoption of a budget for the transitional or adjustment period . For those communities which have financial difficulties in effecting adjustments , there are a number of alternatives any one of which alone , or in combination with others , would minimize if not even eliminate the problem .
Once actual; now in body, and to dwell 
Jew of Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city: and, I
`` Dammit , Phil , are you trying to wreck my career ? ? Because that's what you're doing -- wrecking it , wrecking it , wrecking it '' ! ! Griffith had confronted Hoag on the building's front steps -- Hoag had been permitted no further -- and backed him against a wrought-iron railing . His rage had built up as he made his way here from the second floor , helped by the quantity of champagne he had consumed . Hoag said , `` I didn't send for you , Leigh . I want the captain in charge . Where is he '' ? ? `` Phil , for God's sake , go away . The undersecretary's in there . I told you there's nothing between Midge and me , nothing . It's all in your mind '' . A couple of sobs escaped him , followed by a sentiment that revealed his emotional state . `` Why , I'm not fit to touch the hem of her garment '' . `` Leigh , get a grip on yourself . It's not about you or Midge . I have some security information about the prime minister '' . Griffith looked at him suspiciously through red-rimmed eyes . `` Not about me ? ? You mean it , Phil ? ? You wouldn't pull my leg , old man ? ? I did get you on the platform this morning '' . `` I'm not pulling your leg . Will you call that captain '' ? ? `` No use , he won't come '' . He peered closely at Hoag in the gathering darkness . `` What happened to your head '' ? ? `` I was hit -- knocked out . Now will you get him '' ? ? `` He says I'm to take the message '' . He stared at Hoag drunkenly . `` Who'd hit you in the head '' ? ? `` It doesn't matter . You get back to the captain and tell him this : Somebody's going to take a shot at the prime minister , and Mahzeer is in on the plot . Tell him under no circumstances to trust the prime minister with Mahzeer '' . Griffith said , `` That's impossible . Mahzeer's the ambassador '' . `` Nevertheless it's true '' . `` Impossible '' . Griffith was trying to clear his head of the champagne fuzz that encased it . `` I'll show you how wrong you are . Mahzeer and the prime minister are alone right now '' . He nodded triumphantly . `` So that proves it '' ! ! Hoag looked terrified . `` Where are they '' ? ? `` Where'd you expect , the john ? ? Mahzeer's office '' . `` Where is that '' ? ? `` Facing us , two flights up . Look , old man , you can't go up . They won't even let you in the front door . So why don't you be a good boy and '' -- Hoag grabbed him by the shoulders . `` Listen to me , Leigh . If you want to spend another day in the State Department -- another day -- you get in there and tell that captain what I told you '' . He bit out the words . `` And you know I can do it '' . Griffith raised placating hands . `` Easy does it , Phil . I was just going . I'm on my way '' . He turned and fled into the house and made his way up the marble stairs without once looking back . On the second landing he paused to look for Docherty , didn't see him , and accepted a glass of champagne . He took several large swallows , recollected that Docherty had gone up another flight , and decided he would be wise to cover himself by finding him . The way Hoag was , no telling what he might say or do . He finished his champagne and climbed uncertainly to the next landing . At the top a uniformed officer blocked further progress . `` Yes , what is it '' ? ? He asked . `` I want Captain Docherty '' . He spotted Docherty coming out of a room at the far end of the corridor and called to him . Docherty said , `` It's okay , Bonfiglio , let him by '' . They walked toward each other . `` Well '' ? ? Griffith said , `` Hoag told me to tell you '' -- he waited until they were close ; ; it was hideously embarrassing -- `` not to let the prime minister be alone with Mahzeer '' . Griffith looked half-crocked to the captain ; ; it would be just like him . `` Why not '' ? ? `` He claims Mahzeer's in a plot to kill the P.M. '' . Docherty went taut : was it possible ? ? Could the ambassador himself be the man on this side the prime minister feared ? ? Not possible , he thought ; ; the prime minister knew who his enemy was here ; ; he wasn't going to allow himself to be led meekly to the slaughter . And if by some wild chance Mahzeer was the man , he wouldn't dare try anything now -- not after Docherty had looked in on the two of them to see that all was well . Docherty was damned if he would make a fool of himself again the way he had earlier over the laundry truck . One more muddleheaded play like that one and they'd be leading him away . Still , this had to be checked out . `` Where'd your friend Hoag get his information '' ? ? He asked . `` Haven't the faintest , Captain '' . `` Would you mind sending him up here ? ? I'd like to talk to him '' . Troubled , he continued along the corridor , poking his head into the next office for a careful look around . But Hoag had not stayed on the front steps when Griffith disappeared into the building . He was unwilling to rely on Griffith's carrying his message , and he had no confidence the police would act on it . If Mahzeer was alone with the prime minister he could be arranging his execution while Hoag stood out here shivering in the darkening street . He would have to do something on his own . But what ? ? The door opened and three men and a woman in a sari swept past him and down the stairs . In the lighted interior he saw other men and women struggling into their wraps . These were the early departures ; ; in half an hour the reception would be over . If Mahzeer was planning to set up the prime minister for Muller he would have to do it in the next few minutes . Hoag descended the stone steps to the street and looked up at the building . Wide windows with many small leaded panes swept across the upper stories . On the second floor he saw the animated faces of the party guests ; ; the scene looked like a Christmas card . On the third floor one of the two windows was lighted ; ; it was framed in maroon drapes , and no faces were visible . This would be Mahzeer's office . He and the prime minister would be back from the window , seated at Mahzeer's desk ; ; they would be going over papers Mahzeer had saved as excuse for just such a meeting . In a minute , or five minutes , the business would be done ; ; Mahzeer would stand up , the prime minister would follow . Mahzeer would direct the prime minister's attention to something out the window and would guide him forward and then step to one side . The single shot would come ; ; Hoag would carry its sound to his grave . Mahzeer , of course , would be desolate . How was he to suspect that an assassin had been lurking somewhere across the street waiting for just such a chance ? ? Hoag turned . Where across the street ? ? Where was Muller waiting with the rifle ? ? Narrow four-story buildings ran the length of the block like books tightly packed on a shelf . Most of them could be eliminated ; ; Muller's would have to be one of the half dozen almost directly opposite . The legation was generously set back from the building line ; ; if the angle of fire were too great the jutting buildings on either side would interfere . Would the shot come from a roof ? ? He ran his eye along the roof copings ; ; almost at once a figure bulked up . But dully glinting on the dark form were the buttons and badge of a policeman . With a cop patrolling the road Muller would have to be inside a building -- if he was here at all , and not waiting for the prime minister somewhere between this street and the terminal building at La Guardia Airport . Hoag crossed the narrow street , squeezing between parked cars to reach the sidewalk . From this side he could see farther into the legation's third-story window , but he saw no faces ; ; the room's occupants were still seated or they had been called into the hallway by an alarmed police captain . If only the latter were true . He walked rapidly along the buildings scanning their facades : one was a club -- that was out ; ; two others he ruled out because all their windows were lighted . That left three , possibly four , one looking much like the next . He climbed the steps of the first and opened the door to the vestibule . He quickly closed it again . He had assumed that all these buildings had been divided into apartments , but this one , from a glance at the hall furnishings , was obviously still a functioning town house , and its owners were in residence ; ; that made it doubtful as the hiding place of a man whose plans had to be made in advance . He went on to the next building and found what he expected -- the mingled cooking aromas of a public vestibule . On one wall was the brass front of a row of mailboxes ; ; there were six apartments . Now what ? ? The names on the mailboxes meant nothing to him . This was senseless -- he had no idea what to look for . He peered in the boxes themselves ; ; all were empty except one , and that one was jammed with letters and magazines . The occupants of Apartment Number 3 were probably away for a few days , and not likely to return on a Friday . Had Muller made the same deduction ? ? Muller was attracted to the lore of mailboxes . He opened the inner door ; ; the cooking odors were stronger -- all over the city , at this hour , housewives would be fussing over stoves . He climbed , as quickly as he could urge his body , up the two unbroken flights to the third floor , pulling himself along on a delicate balustrade , all that remained of the building's beauty . He paused on the landing to steady his breathing and then bent to examine the single door by the light of the weak bulb overhead . Now he was certain : the lock had not yielded to Muller's collection of keys ; ; fresh scars showed that the door had been prized open . It had been shut again , but the lock was broken ; ; he noted with a thrill of fear that the door moved under his touch . What was he to do now ? ? He had thought no further than finding Muller . He realized now he had more than half hoped he wouldn't find him -- that Muller would not be here , that the attempt would be scheduled for somewhere beyond Hoag's control . He could not break in on an armed man . He would have to climb back down to the street and signal a cop . Was there time ? ? His thoughts were scattered by the sharp report of a rifle from the other side of the door . Hoag pushed open the door : at the far end of the long dark room Muller was faintly silhouetted against the window , the rifle still raised ; ; he stood with his feet apart on a kitchen table he had dragged to the sill . He turned his head to the source of the disturbance and instantly back to the window and his rifle sight , dismissing Hoag for the moment with the same contempt he had shown in their encounter at Hoag's apartment . Hoag stretched his left hand to the wall and fumbled for the switch : evil flourishes in the dark . The room was bathed in light at the instant Muller's second shot came . Muller , nakedly exposed at the bright window like a deer pinned in a car's headlights , threw down the rifle and turned to jump from the table ; ; his face wore a look of outrage . A shot caught him and straightened him up in screaming pain ; ; a following volley of shots shattered glass , ripped the ceiling , and sent him lurching heavily from the table . He was dead before his body made contact with the floor . Hoag stumbled back into the hall , leaned against the wall , and started to retch . After Captain Docherty sent Arleigh Griffith for Hoag he was able to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above before Griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne .
but a keener interest had succeeded, and she was now so little touched
on his fork.  "You are sure the grey envelope was in the left cupboard?"
Adam's abode; those lofty shades, his bower. 
is God that justifieth.
1:28 These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was
equalled by the realities of the whalemen.
tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy
unto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, that
meat offerings, and drink offerings, in the feasts, and in the new
overtake them.

towards his flying companion a face of peculiar peace and
evil.
1:14 These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication,

braids on the hem of a garment, lay strings of flaky cloud of so
Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for you: this do in
man seduced seven women he would naturally walk away as blameless
whom it will, I give it up to you."

committeth adultery: and whosoever marrieth her that is put away from
himself."
brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony
unto kings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within the

27:22 Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus which is
would go before unto you, and make up beforehand your bounty, whereof
3:13 And I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both
  Mes. Prepare you Generals,
the picture of repose and domestic happiness it presented,
after his own tail. And as he spun, and spun, and spun, faster, and
such as the men who took pokers to their wives, talked in a
My being saved from pain is a very secondary consideration.  I want
3:4 Let that day be darkness; let not God regard it from above,
beloved mother, so tired and so ill, could have rest and happiness.
of every thing she had been wishing for!--Such a development of every

A man at his age--what is he?--three or four-and-twenty--cannot be
'No, I give it up,' Alice replied: 'what's the answer?'
13:14 And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Esaias, which saith, By
very vivacious, that rose abruptly out of the standing collar
that be cursed of him shall be cut off.
"You are extremely kind," said Jane; "but I cannot give up my
17:5 So he went and did according unto the word of the LORD: for he
25:2 And they called the people unto the sacrifices of their gods: and
come out of the captivity, offered burnt offerings unto the God of

Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, 4:2 (Though Jesus
     proper.  I can safely say I owe you no ill-will,


Thou mental, moral orb--thou New, indeed new, Spiritual World!
26:16 And from that time he sought opportunity to betray him.

this: You approve of taking away life from those to whom it is a
Leviathans of note.  But there are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive,
last instant that God would restore the King.  His grandfather,
"You may well be surprised," continued Lucy;
but of lace and finery.  I mean to make my profit of Mrs Wallis, however.
the time, because ye see the thing is gone from me.
water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the


Judaea concerning thee, neither any of the brethren that came shewed
nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of
The atheist drew up his head.  "And I," he said, "give my word."
8:14 They that swear by the sin of Samaria, and say, Thy god, O Dan,
with a fine bloom, blue eyes, light hair, regular features,
But everything about them, from their glory to their good looks,
3:9 What then? are we better than they? No, in no wise: for we have

the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to
his feet, and worshipped him.
Based on the ancient pinnacles, lo, newer, higher pinnacles,
(Many a soldier's loving arms about this neck have cross'd and rested,
earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased

Of length prodigious, joining to the wall 
neatly, that will be all right--all happy!" said Anne, clapping her
and having not the smallest wish for a total change, she only deviated

8:17 I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find
(Yet a moment O tender waiter, and I return,)
overboard--tell me that?
"These would have been all my friends," was her thought;
The earth does not withhold, it is generous enough,
an abomination; it shall not be eaten.
"Colonel Wallis! you are acquainted with him?"
of Elizabeth and Mrs Clay for the morrow's party, the frequent enumeration
been drawn on beyond her own inclination, by her aunt's eagerness
and they shall be fruitful and increase.

THAT solicitude in his disturbed and melancholy look,
the handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his
in and possess the land which the LORD God of your fathers giveth you.
It will be as clean as Randalls by candlelight.  We never see any
that Elinor and her sister were so soon to leave town,
the land; so that I cut off man and beast from it: 14:18 Though these
a liking formerly, though convenience and accident had drawn him
that I wired her not to come till she heard from me.  But he's practically
15:3 And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done
as if accidentally entangled in the trees.  In the stillness Flambeau

as anything else, imparts power to the tail.  To the student of old
of wild thoughts that jumped too quickly for him to catch them.
Life; those sharks, your foes; those spades, your friends; and what

said to be bountiful.
in the world, to be the chosen friend of Miss Anne Elliot,
of the LORD; 5:14 So that the priests could not stand to minister by
is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.
live in this world without being of it.  Be cool at the equator; keep
present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman.  It is
3:18 Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be
the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one end to the bulwarks,

hack!  Behave not only more sanely than any of your patients, but
     To pour the fresh instruction o'er the mind,--
  Kin. Come Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me
I loiter enjoying his repartee and his shuffle and break-down.

have Counsellor Puff.  It's not late."
went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of
uneasiness and suspicions they had caused to Mrs. Jennings,
"You may keep the string for your pains," said Mr. Gresham.
Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, a


All comes by the body, only health puts you rapport with the universe.
if we tell him that the child is dead?  12:19 But when David saw that
    Lo, the darting bowling orb!
absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to many ship

    changed points of view;
or cottage, and chiefly at the former, they could
and cast him forth into the sea, for he knew that for HIS sake this
builders rejected is become the head of the corner: 12:11 This was the

Came smiling, & did bathe their hands in it:
up without Emma's being positively secured for the two first dances
So glozed the Tempter, and his proem tuned: 
The dead face of an old salt with long white hair and carefully
this Moby Dick? thought Daggoo.  Again the phantom went down, but on
"What can it be, Miss Woodhouse?--what can it be? I have not an idea--I

a self-containing stronghold--a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a
motives for heroism are immediately destroyed.  Dr.  Middleton had
as in a moment, and no hands stayed on her.

could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem.
2:23 Him therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see

Burne out the Sence and Vertue of mine eye.

11:23 And after the league made with him he shall work deceitfully:

4:37 And the fame of him went out into every place of the country

householder, which went out early in the morning to hire labourers
religion are really destroyed, it will be by the rich."
With monstrous shapes and sorceries abused 
"He sleeps in his boots, don't he?  He hasn't got any hammock; but
20:10 But Amasa took no heed to the sword that was in Joab's hand: so
rather more,) at the conduct of the Churchills, in keeping him away.
be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you.
4:9 Those things, which ye have both learned, and received, and heard,
call on Comrade Gregory to make a statement."
was no strange god among you: therefore ye are my witnesses, saith the
is my father over again.  Though he had some differences with my
nor more self-evident than the motive of it.
"Hold your tongue," replied the other, walking on, deaf to all
one's talents?  You that have such talents to show.  She'll keep your
the Master.
LORD God of Israel.
along with them and Edmund to put it up.  It was just a month after their


again in a day.  So, in good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at
himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and
desisted, but still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to
liveth, there is no nation or kingdom, whither my lord hath not sent
  Ophe. I do not know, my Lord, what I should thinke
He was fond of children; and as he had no sons, he determined to adopt

46:21 Also her hired men are in the midst of her like fatted bullocks;


She less guarded than ever, yet more guarded than ever,
his might.
she bent over her sister to watch--she hardly knew for what.

Shimron.
headlong rush, bumped the German's aside with such force, that both
spirit of the holy gods is in thee, and no secret troubleth thee, tell
indefatigable spirit, but withal very kindhearted, who seemed

must not be applied to, because it was December, and Mr. Woodhouse

chief, (for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him
want to be paid for doing it."
Wherever I have been I have charged myself with contentment and triumph.


The Town-Ho's Story.
I see the curious rapid change of the light and shade,
feel for a man of thirty-five anything near enough
"Well, my dear, I must be gone before I have had half
2:6 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Israel, and for
26:21 And the sons of Pharez were; of Hezron, the family of the
Hee may not, as vnuallued persons doe,

humour.  Dry Scotch humour.  Well now. I understand that you two
left he prevented the flying ship from smashing into St. Paul's
12:12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day,
but Sir Walter's continuing in singleness requires explanation.
For God, we see, hath honoured thee, and set 
look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more
and Miss Woodhouse flirted together excessively."  They were laying
As meditation, or the thoughts of Loue,
and went his way.
it. Adieu.
Till of a sudden unlook'd for by defiles through the woods, gain'd at night,

This event, while it raised the spirits of Elinor,

The recent experiments in the new poetry-and-jazz movement seen by some as part of the `` San Francisco Renaissance '' have been as popular as they are notorious . `` It might well start a craze like swallowing goldfish or pee-wee golf '' , wrote Kenneth Rexroth in an explanatory note in the Evergreen Review , and he may have been right . Under the general heading `` poetry-and-jazz '' widely divergent experiments have been carried out . Lawrence Ferlenghetti and Bruce Lippincott have concentrated on writing a new poetry for reading with jazz that is very closely related to both the musical forms of jazz , and the vocabulary of the musician . Even musicians themselves have taken to writing poetry . ( Judy Tristano now has poems as well as ballads written for her . ) But the best known exploiters of the new medium are Kenneth Rexroth and Kenneth Patchen . Rexroth and Patchen are far apart musically and poetically in their experiments . Rexroth is a longtime jazz buff , a name-dropper of jazz heroes , and a student of traditional as well as modern jazz . In San Francisco he has worked with Brew Moore , Charlie Mingus , and other `` swinging '' musicians of secure reputation , thus placing himself within established jazz traditions , in addition to being a part of the San Francisco `` School '' . Although Patchen has given previous evidence of an interest in jazz , the musical group that he works with , the Chamber Jazz Sextet , is often ignored by jazz critics . ( Downbeat did not mention the Los Angeles appearance of Patchen and the Sextet , although the engagement lasted over two months . ) The stated goal of the CJS is the synthesis of jazz and `` serious '' music . Patchen's musicians are outsiders in established jazz circles , and Patchen himself has remained outside the San Francisco poetry group , maintaining a self-imposed isolation , even though his conversion to poetry-and-jazz is not as extreme or as sudden as it may first appear . He had read his poetry with musicians as early as 1951 , and his entire career has been characterized by radical experiments with the form and presentation of his poetry . However , his subject matter and basic themes have remained surprisingly consistent , and these , together with certain key poetic images , may be traced through all his work , including the new jazz experiments . From the beginning of his career , Patchen has adopted an anti-intellectual approach to poetry . His first book , Before The Brave ( 1936 ) , is a collection of poems that are almost all Communistic , but after publication of this book he rejected Communism , and advocated a pacifistic anarchy , though retaining his revolutionary idiom . He spoke for a `` proletariat '' that included `` all the lost and sick and hunted of the earth '' . Patchen believes that the world is being destroyed by power-hungry and money-hungry people . Running counter to the destroying forces in the world are all the virtues that are innate in man , the capacity for love and brotherhood , the ability to appreciate beauty . Beauty as well as love is redemptive , and Patchen preaches a kind of moral salvation . This salvation does not take the form of a Christian Heaven . In Patchen's eyes , organized churches are as odious as organized governments , and Christian symbols , having been taken over by the moneyed classes , are now agents of corruption . Patchen envisions a Dark Kingdom which `` stands above the waters as a sentinel warning man of danger from his own kind '' . The Dark Kingdom sends Angels of Death and other fateful messengers down to us with stern tenderness . Actually Heaven and the Dark Kingdom overlap ; ; they form two aspects of heavenly life after death . Patchen has almost never used strict poetic forms ; ; he has experimented instead with personal myth-making . Much of his earlier work was conceived in terms of a `` pseudo-anthropological '' myth reference , which is concerned with imaginary places and beings described in grandiloquent and travelogue-like language . These early experiments were evidently not altogether satisfying to Patchen . Beginning in Cloth Of The Tempest ( 1943 ) he experimented in merging poetry and visual art , using drawings to carry long narrative segments of a story , as in Sleepers Awake , and constructing elaborate `` poems-in-drawing-and-type '' in which it is impossible to distinguish between the `` art '' and the poetry . Art `` makings '' or pseudo-anthropological myths did not meet all of Patchen's requirements for a poetic frame of reference . Many of his poems purported to be exactly contemporary and political ; ; so during the period approximately from 1941 to 1946 , Patchen often used private detective stories as a myth reference , and the `` private eye '' as a myth hero . Speaking in terms of sociological stereotype , the `` private eye '' might appeal to the poet in search of a myth for many reasons . The private detective ( at least in the minds of listeners and readers all over the country ) is an individual hero fighting injustice . He is usually something of an underdog , he must battle the organized police force as well as recognized criminals . The private detective must rely , as the Youngest Son or Trickster Hero does in primitive myth , on his wits . The private detective is militant against injustice , a humorous and ironic explorer of the underworld ; ; most important to Patchen , he was a non-literary hero , and very contemporary . In 1945 , probably almost every American not only knew who Sam Spade was , but had some kind of emotional feeling about him . In The Memoirs Of A Shy Pornographer ( 1945 ) Patchen exploited this national sentiment by making his hero , Albert Budd , a private detective . But since 1945 , Sam Spade has undergone a metamorphosis ; ; he has become Friday on Dragnet , a mouthpiece of arbitrary police authority . He has , like so many other secular and religious culture symbols , gone over to the side of the ruling classes . Obviously , the `` private eye '' can have no more appeal for Patchen . To fill the job of contemporary hero in 1955 , Patchen needed someone else . It was logical that he would come up with the figure of the modern jazz musician . The revolution in jazz that took place around 1949 , the evolution from the `` bebop '' school of Dizzy Gillespie to the `` cool '' sound of Miles Davis and Lennie Tristano , Lee Konitz , and the whole legend of Charlie Parker , had made an impression on many academic and literary men . The differentiation between the East Coast and West Coast schools of jazz , the differences between the `` hard bop '' school of Rollins , and the `` cerebral '' experiments of Tristano , Konitz and Marsh , the general differences in the mores of white and Negro musicians , all had become fairly well known to certain segments of the public . The immense amount of interest that the new jazz had for the younger generation must have impressed him , and he began working toward the merger of jazz and poetry , as he had previously attempted the union of graphic art and poetry . In addition to his experiments in reading poetry to jazz , Patchen is beginning to use the figure of the modern jazz musician as a myth hero in the same way he used the figure of the private detective a decade ago . In this respect , his approach to poetry-and-jazz is in marked contrast to Kenneth Rexroth's . Rexroth uses many of his early poems when he reads to jazz , including many of his Chinese and Japanese translations ; ; he usually draws some kind of comparison with the jazz tradition and the poem he is reading -- for instance , he draws the parallel between a poem he reads about an Oriental courtesan waiting for the man she loves , and who never comes , and the old blues chants of Ma Rainy and other Negro singers -- but usually the comparison is specious . Rexroth may sometimes achieve an effective juxtaposition , but he rarely makes any effort to capture any jazz `` feeling '' in the text of his poems , relying on his very competent musicians to supply this feeling . Patchen does read some of his earlier works to music , but he has written an entire book of short poems which seem to be especially suited for reading with jazz . These new poems have only a few direct references to jazz and jazz musicians , but they show changes in Patchen's approach to his poetry , for he has tried to enter into and understand the emotional attitude of the jazz musician . It is difficult to draw the line between stereotype and the reality of the jazz musician . Everyone knows that private detectives in real life are not like Sam Spade and Pat Novak , but the real and the imaginary musician are closely linked . Seen by the public , the musician is the underdog par excellence . He is forced to play for little money , and must often take another job to live . His approach to music is highly individualistic ; ; the accent is on improvisation rather than arrangements . While he is worldly , the musician often cultivates public attitudes of childlike astonishment and naivete . The musician is non-intellectual and non-verbal ; ; he is far from being a literary hero , yet is a creative artist . Many of these aspects will be seen as comparable to those of the ideal detective , but where the detective is active and militant , the jazz musician is passive , almost a victim of society . In order to write with authority either about musicians , or as a musician , Patchen would have to soft pedal his characteristically outspoken anger , and change ( at least for the purposes of this poetry ) from a revolutionary to a victim . He must become one who knows all about the injustice in the world , but who declines doing anything about it . This involves a shift in Patchen's attitude and it is a first step toward writing a new jazz poetry . He has shown considerable ingenuity in adapting his earliest symbols and devices to the new work , and the fact that he has kept a body of constant symbols through all of his experiments gives an unexpected continuity to his poetry . Perhaps tracing some of these more important symbols through the body of his work will show that Patchen's new poetry is well thought out , and remains within the mainstream of his work , while being suited to a new form . Henry Miller characterized Patchen as a `` man of anger and light '' . His revolutionary anger is apparent in most of his early poems . The following passage from `` The Hangman's Great Hands '' illustrates the directness of this anger . `` Anger won't help . I was born angry . Angry that my father was being burnt alive in the mills ; ; Angry that none of us knew anything but filth and poverty . Angry because I was that very one somebody was supposed To be fighting for '' . This angry and exasperated stance which Patchen has maintained in his poetry for almost fifteen years has been successfully modulated into a kind of woe that is as effective as anger and still expresses his disapproval of the modern world . In his recent book , Hurray For Anything ( 1957 ) , one of the most important short poems -- and it is the title poem for one of the long jazz arrangements -- is written for recital with jazz . Although it does not follow the metrical rules for a blues to be sung , the phrases themselves carry a blues feeling . `` I went to the city And there I did Weep , Men a-crowing like asses , And living like sheep . Oh , can't hold the han' of my love ! ! Can't hold her little white han' ! ! Yes , I went to the city , And there I did bitterly cry , Men out of touch with the earth , And with never a glance at the sky . Oh , can't hold the han' of my love ! ! Can't hold her pure little han' ! ! '' Patchen is still the rebel , but he writes in a doleful , mournful tone . Neither of these poems is an aberration ; ; each is so typical that it represents a prominent trend in the poet's development . Patchen is repeatedly preoccupied with death . In many of his poems , death comes by train : a strongly evocative visual image . Perhaps Patchen was once involved in a train accident , and this passage from First Will And Testament may have been how the accident appeared to the poet when he first saw it -- if he did : `` Lord , love us , look at all the disconnected limbs floating hereabouts , like bloody feathers at that -- and all the eyes are talking and all the hair are moving and all the tongue are in all the cheek .
"Everyone is," said Ratcliffe.
16:9 Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: my flesh also




14:2 And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I
hardly waited for the affirmative before she went on.
those have I not found.
righteous.
And terrour cease; he grants what they besought, 
7:14 Then sent Joseph, and called his father Jacob to him, and all his
and he had, therefore, earnestly tried to dissuade them from having
The addition of his empire, how it showed 


"You shall have both, indeed, Mrs. Pomfret; but don't make such a noise,
will say the truth: but now I forbear, lest any man should think of me
Of horses led, and grooms besmeared with gold, 
to raise her expectations too high.  Miss Harriet Smith may not find
the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not seldom displays the

she might not approve.  If we were not related, it would not signify;
5:28 They are waxen fat, they shine: yea, they overpass the deeds of
call upon the name of the LORD.


once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old Rhodes.
with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.

nowhere appears that he ever actually harpooned his fish, unless,
bow--his bow with green ribands, now no more!--and he pursued his way to
they tread under foot forty and two months.
To visit thee; lead on then where thy bower 
of a different sort.--Are you disposed to pity me for what I must
for the multitude of men and cattle therein: 2:5 For I, saith the
discover thy skirts upon thy face, and I will shew the nations thy
would a riotous lad at Yale or Harvard.  They soon relinquish this
made a Shift to cast him.
stone: therefore they have destroyed them.
Simon a tanner.
eyes.

other he is below it."

Anathema Maranatha.
13:15 Then the men of Judah gave a shout: and as the men of Judah
against him in the world except that little finger on the dial
Ezra
Thy pennants labor, loosen'd to the breeze,
"As I was observing," continued Michael, "this man also took the


11:1 And the apostles and brethren that were in Judaea heard that the
which characterizes a corpulent charwoman who has just managed
as soon the carriage could be found.  Scarcely a word
                         Enter RORY O'RYAN.
decrees for to keep, that were ordained of the apostles and elders
their swords.  Up three slanting meadows, down four slanting
Star panting o'er a land of death, heroic land,

O head! thou hast seen enough to split the planets and make an
of the object, it ought; and judging by its apparently stronger effect
And he shall weare his Crowne by Sea, and Land,
the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother.
O throat! O trembling throat!
David.
knew not.

"Run! run! as fast as you can!
O the strange fascination of these half-known half-impassable
Protest their first of Manhood
Mr. Elton was the very person fixed on by Emma for driving
Farmer Brown's boy, because they didn't know him or understand him, and
number, more than would have filled many honest measures, scattered upon
therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and
Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son's
been ever the like, neither shall be any more after it, even to the
of time upon her health.

remembrance: for thou hast discovered thyself to another than me, and
God of Israel, and according to the commandment of Cyrus, and Darius,
This Physicke but prolongs thy sickly dayes.
O unspeakable passionate love.
and was handed to Queequeg; the second was Aunt Charity's gift, and
That I to your assistance doe make loue,
"How pretty!--but let me have it in my own hands," said Bell, as the maid

top-gallant-sails!  Stand by three boats.  Mr. Starbuck, remember,
Immortal amarant, a flower which once 
on the fringes of society."
it is particularly important that he SHOULD be all this."
and Emma doubted their getting on very well; for Mr. Knightley seemed
ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes!  I will not say as schoolboys
I knew he would!"
nurse at his maternal sea; though in after life he had long followed

friend out of your front door, and as for me----"
terror.  "Oh, who can have done it?  How can it have happened?"
The banded Powers of Satan hasting on 
was a tall and noble animal with a head like a Roman, and a flowing
14:9 And the woman of Tekoah said unto the king, My lord, O king, the
In amorous ditties all a summer's day, 
was reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production
long enough, Ben, at this blue and red window."
and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to
mouthful of Grenadier's steak.  And thus with oars and yells the
asceticism (or because of it, for all I know), was a very healthy

as did her father; and they were neither of them able to devise
     "It may be psychologically possible," answered Flambeau,
province; and he shall do that which his fathers have not done, nor
more immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no
and never without a something of pleasing connexion, either a
depicted in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of old primers.
who has merited a reward; the highest I can give him is that of pardoning
this morning something intelligent is going to be said."
   3. All haile Macbeth, that shalt be King hereafter
were engaged, and had satisfied an active, cheerful mind and social
always represented (in defiance of fact), with red whiskers, and

breakfast!"
When Mr. Cole had moved away, and her attention could be restored
they keep out of sight."
"My dearest Harriet!" cried Emma, putting her hand before her face,
when the breeze blows; and then the wind blows them about on the ground,
of perfection in Highbury, both in person and mind."
a twelvemonth after, must be referred to the imagination
"There never was any Supreme Anarchist Council," he said. "We were
25:37 And the peaceable habitations are cut down because of the fierce
broken; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder.
     "In that case," remarked Muscari, "I confess I prefer
97:3 A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about.
his circumstances NOW, for he is a very prudent man,
    with a good-by kiss and open the gate for your egress hence.
seen suddenly; for the instant Evan engaged he disengaged and
up the spirit of the kings of the Medes: for his device is against
shall pay as the judges determine.
been on such terms as to make the power of attempting an introduction
As the king's daughter came near to the water, she saw the strange
buildings?  there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall
Which way the nearest coast of darkness lies 

beyond the park paling.'  Many a time has she said so; and yet I
for we never had a quarrel in our lives; but she was quite distressed

3:21 Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence
6:1 My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken

verdure; but himself a skeleton.  Life folded Death; Death trellised
where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for
She heard Miss Bates's voice, something was to be done in a hurry;

Then, finding them closing in on every side, the figure sprang upon
time, which went up with them into the camp from the country round
High proof ye now have given to be the race 
the Lord GOD; Because thy filthiness was poured out, and thy nakedness
Emma pondered a moment, and then replied, "I will not pretend


10:12 And the king made of the almug trees pillars for the house of
"A shilling," said Barbara.
and cut and slash, yea, and in their very sweatings to be smoked and
The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Philippians
In this I bury all vnkindnesse Cassius.
26:8 And the Ammonites gave gifts to Uzziah: and his name spread
which found their way to Anne, she could not tell how, and brought

this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins: 13:39 And by
Rose held the sieve, and Susan was feeding her long lost favourite,
wonderful relics of the antique, and which undoubtedly contribute so
out!  11:34 For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been
They had the pleasure of assuring her that Bath more than answered
Lord that they strive not about words to no profit, but to the
recollected that Cecilia had passed her as she came into the hall,


witness which he witnesseth of me is true.
"I don't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled.  Go for the

your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things.
pressed them, with some earnestness, to consider Norland
ye far from thence: 6:7 Let the work of this house of God alone; let
love of virtue.  But how can you, Cecilia, who feel such a strong sense

6:4 So he went with them. And when they came to Jordan, they cut down
And with the Brands fire the Traitors houses.


23:35 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast forgotten
in his place.
gathereth them.
14:11 And men shall dwell in it, and there shall be no more utter
Upon this very scene.

He ended, and the Son gave signal high 

   Ham. Is this a Prologue, or the Poesie of a Ring?

1:14 So the angel that communed with me said unto me, Cry thou,
And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, a
as these; yet in their full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty
   Malc. I know him now. Good God betimes remoue
born, and the night in which it was said, There is a man child
"Me, brother! what do you mean?"
by him to cease; without his own reproach he shall cause it to turn



9:7 And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood in the top of
old, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah.

hinted to Queequeg that perhaps we had best sit up with the body;
Thy miscreated front athwart my way 
in a way to get some quiet rest before she left her.
  Macb. What ere thou art, for thy good caution, thanks

institution as the large public house, the Valencourt Arms.  It
down upon them is a very different thing.  Now, it was plainly a
Deuteronomy--why Father Mapple himself couldn't beat it, and he's
Archer had not given to this harangue all the attention which it
20:1 For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an
But I soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me
with Christ a thousand years.
so crowded!  They are both so very large, and take up so much room;
parting words.  "For the present, the whole affair was to be
But have I now seen Death?  Is this the way 
sperm whale, compared with which the Greenland whale is almost
sum may remain, when I make up my accounts in the spring,

mercies of David.

The errour now, which is become my crime, 


21:24 Proud and haughty scorner is his name, who dealeth in proud
their oars, and gazed with broad faces of curiosity upon the busy scene
a few minutes had threatened to ruin the rest of her evening, had been
he is as much bigger than you as you are bigger than I! His face is much
light, the wonderful comparative smallness of his brain proper is
Of circuit inexpressible they stood, 
    soundless sea;
69:22 Let their table become a snare before them: and that which
talking about prying open any of my doors?"--and with that she seized
living thing.
13:10 But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsaken
earnest thought, she came to her sister again, and said
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
22:19 The righteous see it, and are glad: and the innocent laugh them
be a murderer, then, if"--and slowly, stealthily, and half sideways

56:9 When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I
civilly, 'at least, not exactly, sir. I am arresting you on the
of hosts, the God of Israel, of Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and of


wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the
said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of a dreary street
'Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, 'or I'll have you
2:11 And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child
and beetroot, and young onions."
Though by the Devil himself; him overweening 
wonderful!  Did you get it from an unquestionable source?  Bear with
2:22 Now Eli was very old, and heard all that his sons did unto all
home for Hartfield!  And who but Mr. Knightley could know and bear
to go to you, that I was afraid you would think him quite ill."
weak to defend its own vanities.--No, I am perfectly sure that he
whatever your penetrating eyes may fancy--I am sick of England--

sent you, and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Is it not because
consumed by every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and
Tomb-leaves, body-leaves growing up above me above death,
it, after all?  Are you not the precious image of each and all of us
But a very few mornings after that, when Margery went out, she saw a
father, and like his mother: for he put away the image of Baal that
1:11 And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters: why will ye go with me?

 The watery shore,
vessels.
hole there cut by the spades of the mates.  But how did so clumsy and
Trouble not yourselves; for his life is in him.
a cavern fenced with thorn, in which the third of the great brethren
"I am afraid Jane is not very well," said she, "but I do not know;
an astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under; even
   Ham. That's a faire thought to ly betweene Maids legs

birth.
peasants being wealthy."
went to the 'Windmill Inn,' till it subsided.  The King and his
are those this day among them, who, though intelligent and courageous
time.) 'You're nothing but a pack of cards!'
months before him of such near neighbourhood to many dear friends--
"Oh! pray, Miss Margaret, let us know all about it,"
"Pan," said the Professor dreamily, "was a god and an animal."
or goat, in the camp, or that killeth it out of the camp, 17:4 And
what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth takes
Jordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off: and these stones shall be
Oh go to him this moment."


sepulchres, and burned them upon the altar, and polluted it, according
blood.


7:21 I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints, and


only bodiless as objects, not as agents.  There's a most special, a
Whose damsel is this?  2:6 And the servant that was set over the
'But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice. 'I'm a--I'm a--'
thou persecutest.

with the lead line.  In short, it grew black; I knew what was
mate.
6:14 So Solomon built the house, and finished it.
Brandon--or such a companion for her mother,--how gratefully


always hovering there.  For not by night, even, had Fedallah ever
8:2 For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me
court.
Fortunately for her, they had now reached the cottage,
Yet willingly chose rather death with thee? 
24:3 And Joab said unto the king, Now the LORD thy God add unto the
4:10 Again Esther spake unto Hatach, and gave him commandment unto

hath sheepshearers; let the king, I beseech thee, and his servants go
In three long strides he rejoined his companions, and they, who


Of what so seldom chanced; when to his wish, 
Now as the sound of the drum, hollow and harsh to the last,
Will cheere me euer, or dis-eate me now.
what you have often wished to do yourself?"
with us.
16:25 Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to my


living, yet have they borne their shame with them that go down to the
plague of leprosy.
27:12 And because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the more
very clever boy, and he can't be mistaken"; or, "to be sure, Townsend


madness, he was now churning through the water, violently flailing
Two such she did not want.  It was quite a different sort of thing,
of ascertaining the degree of his danger, and of circumventing the lady
before my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not be
since by many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that
That Vulture in you, to deuoure so many
his claims, and the profound ignorance which, till some seventy years
Th' Almighty Victor to spend all his rage; 
Against revolted multitudes the cause 


world.
in the dry?  23:32 And there were also two other, malefactors, led
    looks at the oats and rye,


26:6 And I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down, and
give? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye
have often confessed that, in all their (often outrageous) adventures,

surprising terrible events,--as the smitten tree gives birth to its

And scape detecting, I will pay the Theft.
Beeshterah with her suburbs; two cities.
daughters, neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy.
afoot thither out of all cities, and outwent them, and came together
do the work in the tabernacle of the congregation.
finger, like a pin prick.

embarrassed attention.  He looked at the large stained figures on the
shall be all safe at Hartfield before midnight."
break; industrial conditions change; the suburbs will not last


the people away into their tents, glad and merry in heart for the

come, and her days shall not be prolonged.
her all her attention.
They had spun through seven streets and three or four squares
fulfil the royal law according to the scripture, Thou shalt love thy
civil but a really kind and charitable way.  I stood looking at him a
14:23 For they also built them high places, and images, and groves, on

changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to
All human lives, throats, wishes, brains--all experiences' utterance;
48:46 Woe be unto thee, O Moab! the people of Chemosh perisheth: for
I understand that he intends to take orders.  Will you
and began to escalade the slope up to the road.  Frank Harrogate
WHALE,               ENGLISH.
mansion, and your question will be answered.  Yes; all these brave
if you don't want to be seen, you mustn't be heard. So he didn't

He brought his spade and shovel, and he made a hole, and he asked the
the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.

Bethel.
"He lives a very lonely life; he has had to do everything for himself."
genial, jolly brightness peculiar to his tribe; a tribe, which ever
   Ophe. O helpe him, you sweet Heauens
found that every circumstance related by Mrs. Jennings
So we got on very well together; but the third man, the old gentleman
standard to the people: and they shall bring thy sons in their arms,
Who so cheerful, so attentive, so attached to him?--Would not he
more with the world, as in such case I must have done.
man prevail against thee.
And an eternall Curse fall on you: Let me know.
But we need not provide for outposts, nor word for the countersign,
a certain sort of seaside town that be did not specially care about,
should be shewed from his friend; but he forsaketh the fear of the
3:15 And the sons of Josiah were, the firstborn Johanan, the second



We have seen the City of Mansoul, even as it rocked, relieved--
doll in dirty evening dress. That any human being should stand in
It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking
the thing, for I will not.  But I know a way of getting up into his room,
10:9 On the morrow, as they went on their journey, and drew nigh unto
How do you like it?--Selina's choice--handsome, I think, but I

in the pursuit than happy in the enjoyment of her wishes.  Leonora was of
in the hope of discovering, in spite of all that Mr. Weston could
to cards.  The remaining five were left to their own powers,
You sir, what Trade are you?
me of deserting my party.  I'll stick by the Archers, right or wrong, I
them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the
O'er all the globe that turns its face to thee shining in space,
that I am the LORD.
     There was an abrupt silence, and Armagnac said:  "He may have
swayed here and there on the breeze, thinking,--thinking. But at last
gathered unto him a great multitude, so that he entered into a ship,
From each the innumerable roofs of slate looked like the leaden
Esq. was safely delivered of a son and heir; a very
was a woman of a very open temper, would explain her cause of
and shew herself just as happy as she was.  To her it was real

his favourite fishing food before him, and the chowder being
take no rest.
9:30 And their eyes were opened; and Jesus straitly charged them,
can vouchsafe to let your imagination wander--but it will not do--
CUVIER.
don't you, ma'am?--And then I tell her, I am sure she would contrive
that began: "Prenatal influences predisposing to mania.
25:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, but not

the sheep.




"Right, my boy, right," said the President with a ponderous
lance answers, it would be hard to say.  It does not seem to be used
the mischief of his attentions, she owed him gratitude and regard,

enemies of society, and so much the worse for society. We are the

had he learnt to do her justice, and only at Lyme had he begun
Starbuck!"
his, as the bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves meet the eye of
Mrs. Jennings was delighted with her gratitude,
'In whose sight all things joy, with ravishment 
'Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on the
witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty.

the lips of those that are asleep to speak.
fathers.
refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain: 1:17 But, when he was
10:7 Do ye look on things after the outward appearance? If any man
toward the south: and thou shalt put the table on the north side.

Knowledge of good and evil in this tree, 
30:18 Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will bring again the captivity of
The Swede returns, and the Dane and Norwegian return.
focus of the glassy ocean's immeasurable burning-glass.  The sky
baptized with?  10:39 And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said
"They love me, though, for all that," said Leonora; "and as for the
"I do suspect that in the midst of your perplexities at that time,
was the deepest pledge of honour; though in many climes, whiteness
any strange god.
had not been in the wrong, and _he_ would never own that he had.
shall evil dwell with thee.

The heart of woman is? O Brutus,

There they bring him the three-year-olds and the four-year-olds to
was very well satisfied with his muttering acknowledgment of its
The maker of the axe large and small, and the welder and temperer,

On me, as on their natural center, light 

Nothing was wanting on Mrs. Palmer's side that constant
one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his
Sophy, whose taste had been cultivated at the same time with her powers


hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he
Though I unpitied:  League with you I seek, 
Henrietta was perhaps the prettiest, Louisa had the higher spirits;
My droused sense, untroubled, though I thought 
when he was leaving them.  "I do not ask you to come in
in prison are standing in the temple, and teaching the people.
transgressed the commandment of the LORD, and thy words: because I
be drawn off from their hills; and the two girls set off
another board.
Israel seventy thousand men.
shooks of staves, and iron bundles of hoops, were hoisted out, till

Nevertheless, the ride had been a long one, and by the time they
8:4 For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that
Do their lives, cities, arts, rest only with us?


trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet still


thy word: that thou mayest know that there is none like unto the LORD
executions I have ordered'; and she walked off, leaving Alice alone with
Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish, I say, will, on reflection, be found the
then comfort him; for he must be very sad; for look! he's left his

The only other person he even admitted to be a judge of an omelette
rake, to even it all off. Margery liked it, because now the garden began
from you: wee coated them on the way, and hither are
encouragement for his pupil.
Marianne, few as had been her hours of comfort

Or the attraction of gravity, and the great laws and harmonious combinations
only her jointure, which will descend to her children."
these brawny, buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.
hear that thou art abhorred of thy father: then shall the hands of all
shall see, and be ashamed for their envy at the people; yea, the fire
5:11 To him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
"I wanted to prove," interrupted Frederick, "that it's not worth while to
Elinor could not be cheerful.  Her joy was of a
Witches vanish.
of sending for the Palmers' apothecary.
me in this instance, dear papa, you cannot think that I shall leave
part advised to depart thence also, if by any means they might attain
it, and nodded their heads, and the Little Fir Tree listened, and heard

a few scraps of stage costume, were multiplied by all the mirrors into

earth; and 'vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;' when the word of
land of Gilead, unto the LORD in Mizpeh.

with red hair, getting up and shaking himself.  "Old Boulnois may be
court, that the word of the LORD came to him, saying, 20:5 Turn again,
33:13 Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not account of
and brother of your sister-in-law, Mrs. John Dashwood,
foreskins of the Philistines.

Forthwith, form every squadron and each band, 

to suit them!'
will write his cowardice on every wall in the world.  If he had
I haue in quicke determination
thee shall surely die.
Mr. Pembroke came; and as soon as he heard what had happened, he desired
"And you think," said Syme, "that this unique monster will be
iron lullaby, the blacksmith's infants were rocked to slumber.


obliged to sell out at a loss, nothing gave any symptom
stared.

utterly unclean; his plague is in his head.
If your lover, husband, wife, is welcome by day or night, I must be
face of the LORD: for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea,
It is not in any dictionary, utterance, symbol.
them.
to go and bury my father.
   Wife. Father'd he is,

he went up to him: and, behold, he sat on the top of an hill. And he



hurried on to explain.
tackles, while poor, buried-alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down
as to the first-rate poets, trying to ascertain whether Marmion

have brought guiltiness upon us.
Of men innumerable, there to dwell, 
4:11 And Chelub the brother of Shuah begat Mehir, which was the father
curtains by themselves, and shalt double the sixth curtain in the
him to be a very inferior creature--and rather wondering at
own country.
called by thy name, to take away our reproach.
Of marching to Philippi presently
Derick and his baffled harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over
no more; her prophets also find no vision from the LORD.
The sweeter welcome:
rent thy clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard thee, saith
There was never any more inception than there is now,
however old-fashioned, it was a comfortable and well-kept country-house,
of the house of the LORD, and he made him altars in every corner of
continued, though she did not chuse to join in it herself;
4:18 For the builders, every one had his sword girded by his side, and
Looks through the horizontal misty air 
in a thin, clear voice.
Thessalonians which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ:
of a way in which you will do more good than by helping the gendarmes,
even be cut off from his people.
Egypt, 41:18 Because of the Chaldeans: for they were afraid of them,

18:45 And it came to pass in the mean while, that the heaven was black
out!  You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can

weather when brave hearts snap ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.


and Mr. Woodhouse having, as usual, tried to persuade his daughter

and devoured him, and consumed him, and have made his habitation
(and probably not a short one) when he had been, at least,
the door of the house of Elisha.
Chants of the prairies,
angels, which are yet to sound!  9:1 And the fifth angel sounded, and

    is scanted,
if you will give me materials."

I know I should be happy with them.
that they are not merely condensed from its vapour; or how do you know
10:11 The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence
sky.  He tore one of the climbers backward by the collar, and with

still gazing at the agitated waters where it had sunk, with a wild
those whose fears for humanity were concerned rather with the
shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory
whereon never man sat; loose him, and bring him.
"Very well, sir! very well! very fine! stick to it, stick to it, I advise

Joys of the free and lonesome heart, the tender, gloomy heart?
there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were
with many tender embraces could articulate at first; but when they
6:18 And ye, in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest
and sat in such a general tremour as made her fear it

37:28 For the LORD loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they
O banner, not money so precious are you, not farm produce you, nor


}  That Music Always Round Me
23:8 The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose
and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of

the priests, and for all the people of the congregation.

6:13 And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me;
Evan stood rooted upon the road, literally like some heavy statue
Into his place, and the great Son returned 
appellative, it stood something like this:--
motive in music through all his mad adventures afterwards, and the
one day; 10:18 And shall consume the glory of his forest, and of his
of almost complete solitude.  They could stray up so near to the

It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my
I haue heard,
of them captives, and brought them to Damascus. And he was also
And it was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan.
and that they should come and keep the gates, to sanctify the sabbath
12:23 Speak unto Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and unto
Only one thing could be done.  Seizing the boat-knife, he critically
his present mood thought it was the end of the world.  Almost at
man, and the chairman repeated, like a piece of clock-work suddenly
spake, Come, and let us go to the seer: for he that is now called a
15:28 Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy

for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs of water.
Shall neuer tremble. Or be aliue againe,
Hodijah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the
for his iniquity.
Undrape! you are not guilty to me, nor stale nor discarded,
"Well, well, I have that note; and can shew it after dinner

taking Kellynch Hall, she rejoiced anew over the conviction which
to go! Let me see: I'll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas.'
opinions.  I do not wonder at you.  If one could ascertain what the

day to day.


shall spread forth his hands in this house: 6:30 Then hear thou from

3:20 And I will stretch out my hand, and smite Egypt with all my
this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman my
Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, saying, 35:2 Go unto the
judgments, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go over to

10:8 And there came a messenger, and told him, saying, They have
power; damned, most subtly and most malignantly! damned in the midst
felt all his sense of something spiritually queer return.
being able to join their party at home, before her brothers and sisters
common honesty of the matter.  I've no more to say."
The sentry was not dead . He was , in fact , showing signs of reviving . He had been carrying an Enfield rifle and a holstered navy cap-and-ball pistol . A bayonet hung in a belt scabbard . He was partially uniformed in a cavalry tunic and hat . Mike stripped these from him and donned them . He and Dean tied and gagged the man , using his belt and shirt for the purpose . They dragged him inside the building . Fiske joined them , unsteady on his feet . Julia , seeing the bandage , rushed to him . `` You are hurt '' ! ! She breathed . `` I never felt better in my life '' , Fiske blustered . He turned to Susan and kissed her on the cheek . `` Thank you , My dear '' , he said . `` You are very brave '' . Mike silenced them . `` We'll talk later . First , we've got to get out of here '' . `` We'll grab horses '' , Dean said . `` The main bunch is outside , but there are some over there inside the wall '' . Mike debated it , trying to decide whether Fiske was strong enough to ride . But it at least offered him a chance for living . He had none here . And , for the sake of Julia and Susan , it had to be tried . The guerrilla bivouac remained silent . Light showed in the orderly room across the parade ground . Someone evidently was on duty there . No doubt there would be men guarding the horses . About a dozen animals were held inside the stockade , as best Mike could make out in the moonlight . Evidently this was a precaution so that mounts would be available in an emergency . He handed the guard's rifle to Fiske . `` Dean and myself will try to cut out horses to ride '' , he said . `` We'll stampede the rest . You stay with the ladies . All of you be ready to ride hell for leather '' . He added , `` If this doesn't work out , the three of you barricade yourself in the house and talk terms with them '' . He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol . Susan halted Dean and kissed him . She clung to him , talking to him , and dabbing at her eyes . Mike turned away . He was thinking that the way she had responded to his own kiss hadn't meant what he had believed it had . He felt unutterably weary . Dean turned from Susan and took Julia Fortune in his arms . He kissed her also , and with deep tenderness . She too began to weep . He released her and joined Mike . `` All right '' , he said . Mike only said , `` Later '' . `` Be careful , McLish '' ! ! Susan said fiercely . `` The way you were careful '' ? ? He snorted . `` Running around in the moonlight almost naked and slugging a man with a rock '' ? ? He kept going . He wanted no more sentimental scenes with her . He might say or do something foolish . Something all of them would regret . He might tell her how sorry a spectacle she was making of herself , pretending to be blind to the way Julia Fortune had taken Dean's affections from her . And using him , Mike McLish , as a sop to her pride . He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol . `` Stay well back of me '' , he said . `` I'm going to walk up to the horses , bold as brass , pretending I'm one of the guerrillas . There's bound to be someone on guard , but the hat might fool them long enough for me to get close '' . Holding the pistol concealed , he walked to the rear wall of the stockade . It was pierced by a wagon gate built of two wings . One wing stood open . Mike passed through it and moved toward the dark mass of horses . They were tethered , army style , on stable lines . A voice spoke near-at-hand . `` Who's that '' ? ? Just me '' , Mike said . `` Is that you , Bill '' ? ? He located his man . The guard stood in the shadow of the stockade wall just out of reach of the moonlight . Mike kept walking and got within arm's reach before the man became suspicious and straightened from his lax slouch . Mike struck with the muzzle of the pistol . But the luck that had been running their way left him . The guard instinctively parried the blow with his rifle . He tried to veer the rifle around to fire into Mike's body . Mike , off balance , managed to bat the muzzle away a moment before it exploded . The bullet went wide . Mike swung the pistol in a savage backlash . This time it connected solidly on the man's temple , felling him . The explosion of the rifle had crashed against the walls of the stockade and the deep echoes were still rolling in the hills . The startled horses began rearing on their tethers . Dean came rushing up . `` Are you hit '' ? ? He demanded . `` No , but the fat's in the fire '' ! ! Mike said . `` There's no chance now of all of us getting away . You'll have to try it alone '' . The sentry's saddled horse stood picketed nearby , having been kept handy in case of need . Mike took the bayonet from Dean's hand and slashed the picket line . `` Up you go '' ! ! He said . `` Ride '' ! ! Dean resisted Mike's attempt to push him toward the horse . `` Why not you '' ? ? He protested . `` Dammit '' ! ! Mike said frantically . `` You're lighter than me . It's our only chance now . Try to find these Feds . The rest of us can fort up in the house and hang on until you get back . You're the one that's taking the big chance '' . Dean still hesitated , but Mike lifted him almost bodily into the saddle and thrust the reins in his hand . `` No telling how good this horse is '' , Mike panted . `` Favor him and save something in case you hit trouble . Watch out for Apaches when it comes daylight . Take the pistol . You might need it . We'll still have the rifle , and I might be able to round up some more . I'll stampede the rest of these horses so they can't chase you '' . Dean leaned from the saddle and gave him a mighty whack on the back . `` McLish '' , he said as he kicked the horse into motion , `` I'd be a mighty sad man if we never met again '' . Then he was on his way at a gallop . Mike ran down the line , slashing picket ropes with the bayonet . He lifted a screeching war whoop . That touched off a total stampede . He darted inside the stockade and freed the horses there . These poured through the gate and joined the flight . The animals thundered away into the moonlight , heading for the ridges . The guerrillas were swarming from their bivouac at the west end of the enclosure . `` Apaches '' ! ! Mike yelled . `` They're stealin' the stock '' ! ! He scuttled in shadow along the east wall of the stockade and then followed the south wall until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings . He crouched there . His shout had been taken up and repeated . The guerrillas were running across the parade ground and through the rear gate in the wake of the departing horses . All were carrying guns they had seized up , but they were half-clad or hardly clad at all . Durkin and Calhoun came running from the post . They had pistols in their hands . They bawled questions that were not answered in the uproar . They followed the others toward the east gate . Beyond the stockade rifles began to explode as some of the guerrillas fired at shadows that they imagined were Apaches . Mike made a dash to the rear of the frame buildings . He crawled beneath the two supply wagons which stood between the buildings and peered around a corner . The area was deserted . A man was standing in the open door of the lighted orderly room a few yards to Mike's left , but he , too , suddenly made up his mind and went racing to join the confused activity at the east end of the stockade . Mike crawled to the door and peered in . The orderly room seemed to be deserted . A lantern hung from a peg , giving light . Ducking inside , he found that three rifles were stacked in a corner . A brace of pistols , holstered on belts , hung from a peg , along with ammunition pouches . An ammunition case stood open , containing canisters which contained powder cartridges . Mike seized a blanket from a pallet in a corner , spread it on the floor and used it to form a bag in which he placed his booty . Shouldering the load he peered from the door . His looting of the orderly room had taken only a minute or two and the vicinity was still clear of guerrillas . He looked at the looming hoods of the supply wagons , struck by a new inspiration . He set his bundle down . Snatching the lantern from its peg , he shattered its globe with a blow against a post . He picked up the powder canister and ran out . Bursting paper cartridges , he scattered powder beneath the nearest wagon and dumped the contents of the canister upon it . He shouldered the blanket again , backed off , and tossed the lantern with its open wick beneath the wagon . He turned and raced across the parade ground toward the rock house . Powder flame gushed beneath the wagon . The stockade was brilliantly lighted and the guerrillas sighted him . They realized the truth . Bullets began to snap past him . One struck the muzzle of one of the rifles that projected from the shoulder pack . Its force spun him around , but he recovered and got into stride again . A bullet tore the earth from beneath his foot when he was a stride or two from safety . Another struck him heavily in the thigh and he went down . Guerrillas were racing toward him . Susan and Julia came from the door and dragged him with them . The three of them floundered through the door into the interior and fell in a heap . Susan bounced to her feet and slammed the door . She crouched aside as bullets beat at the portal , chewing into the planks . Some tore entirely through the whipsawed post oak . The iron hinges held , but the planks were in danger of being torn from the crossbars . Mike rolled to Susan , grasped her around the knees , dragging her off her feet . He hovered over her to shield her , for spent bullets were thudding against the rear walls . He peered from a loophole . Guerrillas were only a dozen yards away , charging the house . Mike snatched a pistol from the heap of scattered booty and fired . He dropped a man with the first bullet . At the same moment Wheeler Fiske fired the rifle Mike had given him and another guerrilla was hit . That halted the rush . The guerrillas scattered for cover . The wagons were burning fiercely . The mudwagon had caught fire also . The blaze was spreading to the frame buildings . The guerrillas realized they faced a new problem . `` Gawdamighty '' ! ! One screeched . `` There goes our grub an' ammunition '' ! ! `` Get a bucket line going '' ! ! Calhoun shouted . `` Hurry ! ! Hurry '' ! ! The guerrillas began a frantic search for pails in which to bring water from the spring . But what few containers they found were inadequate . Many of them , in increasing panic , came running with water in their hats in a ludicrous effort . Both buildings were in flames . The heat drove the guerrillas back . The roof of the command post began to buckle . `` Drag the wagons to the spring '' ! ! Lew Durkin yelled . `` Run 'em right into the spring ! ! Hustle '' ! ! One of the wagons erupted a massive pillar of flame . A sizable supply of powder had been touched off . The wagons and the coach were beyond saving and so were the buildings . The glow of the fire reached through the openings in the windows , giving light enough to examine Mike's wound . The bullet had torn through the flesh just above the knee , inflicting an ugly gash that was forming a pool of blood on the floor . But it had missed the bone and had passed on through . Susan and Julia ripped strips from their clothing and bound the injury . Mike tested the leg and found that he was able to hobble around on it .
came to Judah and Jerusalem: for Jeroboam and his sons had cast them
1:5 And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat,
a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven.

ate the tiny shoots and leaves to the ground. More came, and more, and
I was willing to hope that you must fare better."
Though hard and rare:  Thee I revisit safe, 
"If I had known," he spluttered, "that I was acting for a poltroon
at least if you ever received a hint of it, for I never did.
everything seemed to be in suspense, or at an end.  But then,
25:10 Moreover I will take from them the voice of mirth, and the voice
for a moment overcome--then reproaching herself for having taken
which is within also?  11:41 But rather give alms of such things as ye


by a girl wrapped in a ragged shawl.  On the police interfering,
the outer character seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the


go, meet the man of God, and enquire of the LORD by him, saying, Shall

and fortune, to leave her card with her as soon as she married.
that I called--any young gentleman of Eton a SCRUB!  Why, you know, sir,

25:8 But if thou wilt go, do it; be strong for the battle: God shall
By sailors young and old haply will I, a reminiscence of the land, be read,
Holy memorials, acts of zeal and love 
Turn to the world, the triumphs reserv'd and to come--give up that
     he consent to it; but he said it should never be,
What the study could not teach--what the preaching could not
fell on her knees beside Cray's chair.  He could not hear what they said
her mind by and bye, why so much the better."
favourite feeling.  Would not Harriet be the very creature described?

and sorted the heterogeneous mass.  Archer, in the height of his glory,
Some three days since on their own soil live-sprouting,

unto Jerusalem and to the house of Judah: fear ye not.
7:19 And the chapiters that were upon the top of the pillars were of

poor children in the neighbourhood, was often reproved in her unjust
Could merit more than that small infantry 
And there is the meaning to us of all that has ever come of races
Lord J.  I must not say, "Huzza for Talbot!"        (Exeunt.)
are round about you; 6:15 (For the LORD thy God is a jealous God among
and Henrietta did seem to like him.
for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first
wrestled with and thrown, the grand generalizations he had
shown that even in the tropics it would have been unique; but it
Mr. Frank Churchill's situation, you would be able to say and do
scattered woodlands went by them in one black blotch and heavy
10:17 LORD, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt
nightfall, when the extravagant roofs were dark against the
"And deny your most sacred dogma," said MacIan.
to other people, and their manly unstudied simplicity
    I would do the same to you,
in this State.  The authorities, hurrying in the direction of the cry,
Mr. Elton's situation was most suitable, quite the gentleman himself,
The fall of grenades through the rent roof, the fan-shaped explosion,
seas, and land on barbarous coasts.  Not ignoring what is good, I am
due; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honour to whom honour.
The end of all thy offspring, end so sad, 
The realm itself of Satan, long usurped; 
understanding shall find good.
as we came home from church; and then it all came out,
for there, doubtless, were the cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.
And who has been just? for I would be the most just person of the earth,
righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.

of this was the tearing of the dress at the shoulder, and this did not seem
2:18 For when they speak great swelling words of vanity, they allure
"May I with all respect inquire," asked the old monk, "what on
alien.*  Hence, all the smaller, spouting, and horizontal tailed fish
opportunity of recovering my confidence by your punctuality."
come, Felix trembled, and answered, Go thy way for this time; when I
they shall return even to the LORD, and he shall be intreated of them,
the answers she gave to all the questions that were asked her, pleased
by the Lord I'll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to
29:8 And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered
Epilogue
   Ham. Oh God, your onely Iigge-maker: what should
51:18 Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls of
his God.


their lips; but their heart is far from me.
desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.

7:18 He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he that
"True."

To you, whom I could pity thus forlorn, 
Mrs. Pomfret, whose eyes were blinded by her prejudices against the folks
Dismounted, on the Aleian field I fall, 
  There's nothing quite at all like it
otherwise.
people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with
congregation hath heard.
For of celestial bodies first the sun 
an interest in my fate and actions, it may be the means--it
Oh! he's all right, is the Yarman."
its bearing the same construction with him.  They walked thither directly.
1:51 Hadad died also. And the dukes of Edom were; duke Timnah, duke
into a momentary expression of contempt, and turned away,

But I do finde it Cowardly, and vile,
74:7 They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by
to some very impertinent remarks, do you not now begin
so well, that I should be unpardonable to doubt it now.
at the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be
affirmed that it was even so. Then said they, It is his angel.



and from the danger of hearing any thing more from
Spirit; 3:6 That the Gentiles should be fellowheirs, and of the same
and with thee will I break in pieces the chariot and his rider; 51:22
pleased thee well.




a great deal of time."
have holden, to subdue nations before him; and I will loose the loins
The spread of the Baltic, Caspian, Bothnia, the British shores, and
thousand in one day, which were all valiant men; because they had
which way that good old man went after the ball; and if he's above
15:14 For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and came to
to any body, for fear of its getting round to dear Miss Woodhouse,
may be hot, and may burn, and that the filthiness of it may be molten
God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: because it was


23:28 Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within
that she could have any chance of hearing him spoken of with cooling
The Tortoise said she would not say a word; she would not so much as
land, and made mine heritage an abomination.

  Cassi. This it is:
hearing the joyful tidings confirmed by Susan herself.  The crowd on the
by particular desire, to help Mr. Weston's judgment; and they were
way of David and Solomon.
   Led by the wandering light,
them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.

of Sinai.
voyage, on account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of

Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by
it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish therein.
But by those clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is
}  To Those Who've Fail'd
32:35 And they built the high places of Baal, which are in the valley
The friendly and flowing savage, who is he?
six feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a
    and crazy, devoted my income and labor to others,
with such commendation as that.  I do not perceive
brings us back to the question, did Buster steal Farmer Brown's boy's

throb that means only one thing--horses!


not permit a hasty or a witty word from herself about his manners.

ye shall fall by the sword: because ye are turned away from the LORD,

31:7 And they warred against the Midianites, as the LORD commanded
The happy mother thanked her son, and the father assured him that neither
the gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were
66:5 Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward
One turns to me his appealing eyes--poor boy! I never knew you,

head. For the philanthropic Dr. Renard had deliberately raised his

21:29 But if the ox were wont to push with his horn in time past, and
Of hill, and valley, rivers, woods, and plains, 
Thus in silence in dreams' projections,
  Sooth. At mine owne house, good Lady

being settled in London, only sixteen miles off, was much beyond
dogs.
40:20 Surely the mountains bring him forth food, where all the beasts


in his eye, or be scurvy, or scabbed, or hath his stones broken; 21:21

(Even here in my room-shadows and half-lights in the noiseless
 
Ahab?--But pull on!  Aye, all alive, now--we near him.  The helm!
muddle their slates'll be in before the trial's over!' thought Alice.
Closer yet I approach you,

Mrs. Churchill could not help smiling.
underground passage); these fabulous narrations are almost fully
3:40 And the LORD said unto Moses, Number all the firstborn of the
     Thy happy kingdom in _myself_,
two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this
for yourself, for your mother--will you allow me to prove it,
Stowing Down and Clearing Up.
        Depart--a God-enfranchis'd soul!
but there are also affections which are entirely animal and
11:4 And they went out, they and all their hosts with them, much
of all adjacent, interdicted parts, and exactly divide the spine at a
about education, he would have said that the young must be
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from Heauen to Earth,
LORD God of Israel, Every bottle shall be filled with wine: and they
"Watched us out of the house!"
the street, were a group of noisy and talkative men, all dressed
Accordingly, the next day young Cox went to Brian O'Neill, and tried, at
Egypt, and say unto him, Thou art like a young lion of the nations,
the third day?  20:9 And Isaiah said, This sign shalt thou have of the
the law, happy is he.

slay me.


But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards
Bursal.)  What a lump of family pride that Lord John is.
like old wine worked anew.  Whatever pale fears and forebodings some
streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They
11:16 The LORD called thy name, A green olive tree, fair, and of
inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be my strength in the LORD of hosts
us where you are going, we will see you safely there and say good



He closes with you in this consequence:
also with his wife, had perfectly understood the whole story.
of ill-health seemed to point out the likeliest evil of the two.
and leaves me so deadly calm, yet expectant,--fixed at the top of a
and, behold, all the earth sitteth still, and is at rest.
he is hungry; 6:31 But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he

speak one to another, every one to his brother, saying, Come, I pray
Babylon.
in the proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever
tarried a little in the house.
39:22 And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue.
righteousness: for he is a babe.
placed among men;
   Macd. This Auarice


the city, and there was no bread for the people of the land.

18:5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of
of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come.
A Son, the Woman's seed to thee foretold, 
of Jabesh; and they were glad.

see a uniform and a cathedral both in one morning?"
saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have

Most necessary 'tis, that we forget
whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on Sperm

We never met, and neer shall meet--and yet our souls embrace, long,

hast made thy beauty to be abhorred, and hast opened thy feet to every
ye not, A confederacy, to all them to whom this people shall say, A
   Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
vauntingly; and as he spoke, he tossed the shuttlecock up with all his
As checking at his Voyage, and that he meanes
The consort of his reign; and by them stood 

The voice, articulation, language, whispering, shouting aloud,
him hath written unto you; 3:16 As also in all his epistles, speaking
From every beast; more duteous at her call, 
14:17 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from
   Fla. It is no matter, let no Images
13:36 Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus

and knowledge of the world of which he himself and his best

son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah, 6:46 The son
carry butter is to wrap it up in some leaves and take it down to the
this was my portion of all my labour.
Servant of servants, on his vicious race. 
As when the stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds
"Theoretically, I suppose, we ought to call the police."
In Aaron's breast-plate, and a stone besides 

Oh, boys, don't be sentimental; it's bad for the digestion!  Take a
Aiah: and Ishbosheth said to Abner, Wherefore hast thou gone in unto
   Qu. What would she haue?
of who she was.  He looked completely astonished, but not more astonished
6:11 O ye Corinthians, our mouth is open unto you, our heart is
Thy troops of white-maned racers racing to the goal,

perpetual statute: and thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons.
upon them; because when I called, none did answer; when I spake, they
"Your father will not be easy; why do not you go?"
shall come to pass; it shall be no more prolonged: for in your days, O
As you droop'd from the sky low down as if to my side, (while the


Ephraim and Manasseh even unto Zebulun: but they laughed them to
David whithersoever he went.

Then he turned to Gottlieb with a smile, "You see that although you
brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
10:18 Behold Israel after the flesh: are not they which eat of the
in the feast which was in the seventh month.
Now of the older war-days, the defeat at Brooklyn,
knowledge of Mrs. Ferrars's disposition and designs.
one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;

19:9 A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh
For shame old maniacs--bring down those toss'd arms, and let your
Bethel with the towns thereof, and Jeshanah with the towns thereof,
and (since self will intrude) who can say that she may not have
10:26 And the LORD of hosts shall stir up a scourge for him according
The wicked uncle of the legends very nearly got his estate after all."

FATHER BROWN was walking home from Mass on a white weird morning
1:18 When she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with her, then

Thus have I told thee all my state, and brought 
The hand writing of her mother, never till then unwelcome,
vineyard, and whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their
trained, or else they would pull up the trees when they are weeding.

thing had happened to him, King Robert rushed to his palace gates,

Adam, by dire example, to beware 
sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God; for the crown of the
Their own both righteous and unrighteous deeds, 
coiling to which it must be subjected; but as most seamen are
     "I wish I did," said his friend.  "And what has it to do
of Naboth shall dogs lick thy blood, even thine.
Repeated; she to him as oft engaged 
plant vineyards, and eat the fruits thereof.
Sin against law to fight: that when they see 
companions meant that they were free from all spies, and as there
villages: 15:52 Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean, 15:53 And Janum, and
present with us, ye see this man, about whom all the multitude of the
blindness, both small and great: so that they wearied themselves to

Of looks and smiles; for smiles from reason flow, 


the house, and stood over the cherubims.
their eyes?  5:12 The sleep of a labouring man is sweet, whether he
  Sey. This way my Lord, the Castles gently rendred:
Repeated; while the sedentary Earth, 

We have watch'd the seasons dispensing themselves and passing on,


37:33 Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the king of Assyria, He
yourselves like men, and fight.
must be planning, proceeding and hoping in uncertainty--at the risk--
afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.

or contracted an habitual gloom of temper, or died of a
jib-stay!  Blang-whang!  God!  Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal
And wrought but malice; lifted up so high 
of thy wine, or of thy oil, or the firstlings of thy herds or of thy
exaggeration or delusion. Their infinity was more like the empty
this day.
20:8 Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast
119:29 Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me thy law

month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 29:2 Son of man, set
16:8 But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost.
their chat just now, and the white whale--shirr! shirr!--but spoken
20:22 And the LORD said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto the
What Brutus, are you stirr'd so earely too?


10:1 Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? why hidest thou thyself in
To sail and sail and sail!
hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? wherefore hast thou
tell what o'clock it is!'
14:28 But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
to Lucy an engagement of the heart?  No; whatever it might
"What are you going to do?"
unleavened bread shall it be eaten in the holy place; in the court of
23:8 So the Levites and all Judah did according to all things that
Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, The Lord GOD liveth.



throw myself at your feet. I implore you. Do not elect this man."

8:41 And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of
long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.
gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships, well-nigh as
8:24 Then I separated twelve of the chief of the priests, Sherebiah,
not convenient; 1:29 Being filled with all unrighteousness,
"If the Athenaeum Club lost all its members, the Athenaeum Club


have rejected the word of the LORD; and what wisdom is in them?  8:10
At one extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread
Popayan; with plenty of gold moidores and pistoles, and joes, and
"I told you, Dr. Quayle, that these men were to go to cells B and


Indicating to each one what he shall have, giving something to each;
roar like great waters, a noise of their voice is uttered: 51:56
for a peep at the whispering gallery in the spinal column; threepence
"What place can this be?" he asked. "Can it be the old devil's
and reserve, she beheld in him an object of interest.
covenant.
recovery from any.  He looked like a man cut away from the stake,
to Zaccur, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:11 The
instantly drew his sword and flew at Pendragon, and after a short but


Ecclesiastes is the fine hammered steel of woe.  "All is vanity."


monologue was uphill work. Syme began to feel a new sickness and
still mysterious paradox of history. Suppose we seem as shocking as
revenge, and have taken vengeance with a despiteful heart, to destroy
in you, ye also shall continue in the Son, and in the Father.
    water rocking silently,
Oft he to her his charge of quick return 
11:7 But out of a branch of her roots shall one stand up in his
thieves; we go to artistic tea-parties to detect pessimists. The
the cabin, Stubb now called his boat's crew, and pulled off for the
then in the slowest, most provoking way, he drawled: "Farmer Brown's boy
Good gracious!--In a moment I shall see the person that all
Vpon her skinnie Lips: you should be Women,
16:22 I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you in the Lord.
his waistcoat.  The red flower stood up in his buttonhole aggressively,
but she had too much to urge for Emma's attention; it was soon gone

pushed back."


Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!
16:18 Whosoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another,

[Employee Identification Number] 64-622154.  Donations are

in from work--"Son Arthur, do you hear me? let me never again see you
you.
The head had received a severe contusion, but he had seen greater injuries
cord was drawn forth, it appeared that it was the very same jagged,
"Well!" cried Archer, with affected gaiety, as soon as the doctor had
planted, shall be rooted up.

living dog is better than a dead lion.
her to sing for them.  Her voice was not so sprightly, but it was sweeter
is before thee: 23:2 And put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man
2:23 And when inquisition was made of the matter, it was found out;

    and life,
Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio,

done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on

physiognomically in keeping without the elevated open-work belfry of

began to fear that he had mistaken his game in quarrelling with this

mountains; 6:16 And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and
in a poor man's garden at Resina, a hole in a well about thirty feet
other French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes
16:5 Then Rezin king of Syria and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel
7:25 And on all hills that shall be digged with the mattock, there

  The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,

up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, there came much people by the
greatest depth of the invested body of this particular whale must
springing thereof.
Not words alone pleased her.  O! when meet now 
the LORD shall not want any good thing.
hesitating; for though he by no means wished to accept the invitation, he
"Well, the fact is----" began Turnbull again, and then the phrase
The link of Nature draw me: flesh of flesh, 
there was no grass.
prophesied: for greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaketh
feverishly at their heels. At the end of the passage was a door,
anger with a foolish nation.
halting, saying, Peradventure he will be enticed, and we shall prevail
and Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley, their five children, and a competent
wanted; and as he was talking about them, a sailor came into the shop,
equal society, peace and hope, to penance and mortification for ever.
think how disappointed he will be if you don't come
she believed it to indicate only his disinclination to dwell on any
A nation from one faithful man to spring: 
nobleman. He pulled it hard, and it came off in his hand.
with me to Carlo's, and see how I spend my evenings; then complain of me,
He will be starting presently.  Sherry, sir?"
face; 6:18 That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father
and to the going up of the corner.


that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now.  Aye, aye," he
marvellous cadence as from Tashtego the Indian's.

fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them

   Other. Marry, now I can tell
17:14 Heal me, O LORD, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be
once more, without the interchange of one friendly look.
with thee: for this thing is too heavy for thee; thou art not able to
I see Hermes, unsuspected, dying, well-belov'd, saying to the people
any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come

16:12 Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the
29:10 And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban
she waited patiently.
Jordan.


Where is the practis'd and perfect organ? where is the develop'd soul?
pair of shoes; yea, and sell the refuse of the wheat?  8:7 The LORD
the all-sufficiency of home to himself, whence resulted her brother's
15:37 In those days the LORD began to send against Judah Rezin the


forehead with it, and politely offered it to the Colonel, who
1:38 And the sons of Seir; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah,
thyself alone.
12:11 Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but
1:2 And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with part
also stood by the carcase.
thatch the room in which they were to sleep, and another took their cow

shall a son of man dwell in it.
Hazeroth.
the hair and of satisfying herself, beyond all doubt,
deliver any man to die, before that he which is accused have the
Who, from the terror of this arm, so late 
shunned or taunted as usual.  All seemed disposed to believe in his

live goat: 16:21 And Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of

Me imperturbe, standing at ease in Nature,



"Three weeks and four days, madam."
earned only by his own dissipated course of life, and that
company, with bosky beards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing
"I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,"
vessel, with a most scrupulously neat commander.  The unmanufactured

And flattered out of all, believing lies 
"What did Mr. Weston tell you?"--said Emma, still perplexed.
a certain paradox which partly redeems it.  For while the journalism
Haue bar'd my Bosome to the Thunder-stone:
Of course that wasn't nice talk and anything but a nice spirit, but
be like all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out
women may be taught not to do after your lewdness.
and sought to kill him.
The girl tore off one of her gloves, as if she were tearing off
witness between us, if we do not even according to all things for the
Marianne, now looking dreadfully white, and unable
agreeable proofs of his growing attachment.
of her manner being soon sufficient to convince him, where conviction

Meanwhile the British manoeuvr'd to draw us out for a pitch'd battle,
2:10 For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one
14:8 For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die,
think themselves equal even to my brother, Mr. Suckling, who happens
old hair aside; it blinds me, that I seem to weep.  Locks so grey did
a covenant with thee?  Behold the hope of him is vain!  But I have
Till the tissues that held me parted their ties upon me.
hands with me?"
nature's sweet or savage impressions fresh from her own virgin
35:14 Although thou sayest thou shalt not see him, yet judgment is
 



Elinor's office was a painful one.--She was going
the door opened, it was himself.  He begged their pardon,

Another slice of cold meat, another draught of Madeira and water,
9:18 And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and
away from iniquity.
he would do.
The Life-Buoy.

not being tipped."
Israel, and put dust upon their heads.


should tell no man what was done.
Was he at all such as he appears now?"
aroused by the sound of her mother's feeble voice, who was calling Susan
Whale; though for some score of years previous (ever since 1726) our
19:47 And the coast of the children of Dan went out too little for
The general commanding me, commanding all, from him permission taking,
Thames looked as empty as the mountains of the moon. But even the

Astonished. None among the choice and prime 

Heaven's awful Monarch? wherefore, but in hope 
Yet thence his lustful orgies he enlarged 
got to his feet and shook himself. Then he walked over to a big

there respect of persons with him.
'Nothing WHATEVER?' persisted the King.
If that his Maiesty would ought with vs,

shall fish them; and after will I send for many hunters, and they
6:11 What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is mine end,
53:8 He was taken from prison and from judgment: and who shall declare

3:20 And again, The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they
"The new theatre is going to be opened!  Follow the manager!  Follow the
man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand,
13:36 Then Jesus sent the multitude away, and went into the house: and
angry with you to have destroyed you.
and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and
10:8 But they are altogether brutish and foolish: the stock is a

the shadow of one handsome villa with verandas and wide ornate gardens,
the cup!  Oh, oh! oh, oh! thou grinning whale, but there'll be plenty

there is no help.
authority.  They may be progressing uphill and down; they may be
stood up for to read.
despair of me, to seek me any more in any coast of Israel: so shall I

a great deal of money to lay out upon herself, and she wished, but did
shingled attic, of an August noon; this seems an additional argument
But one night Dookiyoon moved in the direction of the women's lodge , where Shades of Night had gone to purify herself . With the blue flesh of night touching him he stood under a gentle hill caressing the flageolet with his lips , making it whisper . He saw her emerge suddenly , coming in her unhesitant fashion , her back stiff , her head erect , facing with contempt the night and whatever she would encounter , as if in her extreme disdain and indifference she would pass by all the outraged looks of those whom she might approach . In her dark , scornful fashion she proceeded to her destination , afraid of nothing , not even the evil spirits which kept her company in her time of bleeding . Seeing her come , he caught his breath , feeling his heart bounce in him , and turned away , afraid now . Even he , wanting her , afraid of her and not knowing how to press his suit , feared the evil presences in her metabolism more . His breath caught , and , trembling , he closed his eyes and stumbled off . Going , he saw as often before some queer , hideous yellow face over his head , shining and weird like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that appear sometimes near the eyeballs when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs . He cried out to her , his back turned . Then he fled , not waiting to see if she minded him or took notice of his cry . But she heard him go . Yet she did not hesitate and only turned slightly , her neck tall as she looked in his direction , and continued on her way toward the end of the camp . Elsewhere others heard and stopped and waited , the women peering from their lodges then gathering in small , curious clusters . Early Spring came from her bed , from beside her half-drunk husband , Walitzee , and stood at the entrance way to her lodge hearing the mild commotion , the sound of hushed voices . Standing there she saw Shades of Night come through the trees and stop beside the lodge , silent , almost imperious , her body taut , simply standing without speaking or moving while the wife of Walitzee waited , perhaps denying the dread that moved in her . When at last she could suffer the insult no longer , nor face the girl's scorn , she said in a voice overloud : `` I shall call your father ! ! Go back where you can bring no harm , or I will go and get the old man from his bed so he can see your shame '' ! ! But the girl said only , `` Tell him I am here , that I have come '' . And it was not Pile of Clouds she meant . But now with real anger at last , something proud and indignant , Early Spring stood like a she wolf before her den and cried , `` I will not shriek at you ! ! I will tell you to go , not begging . Telling you '' ! ! And unsheathing the knife she used for curing hides she stepped away from the lodge , holding the knife at her side . `` You bring only wickedness '' , she said and it was not to a child any longer but to another woman who had come to skirt her lodge with the cunning hunger of a wild animal . Speaking in a low voice of loathing she went up to the girl , who stood with the same upright , scornful bearing and did not even look at the knife . `` Go take helsq'iyokom , your evil spirit , to the young boys '' , the woman said . `` They do not have to face battle . I will not let your evil in . I will simply kill you first . Now go '' ! ! The other women had come close now , their voices murmuring together until they stood buzzing in an angry knot , their threats mingling , rising , nagging at each other , each trying to make her indignation and anger felt . They picked up sticks and hurled them at the girl . The sticks fell like a shower around her and she felt them sting her flesh and send tiny points of pain along her thighs . They were all shouting at her as if she were the embodiment of the evil she brought . But she did not move , taking the words and the sticks in that old defiance of her extreme youth until suddenly Pile of Clouds came howling among them , swinging a great bullhide whip . `` Go back to your lodges '' ! ! He shouted . `` A pack of dogs makes less noise '' ! ! He made the long whip sing and snap around their heads so that they ran screaming , some tripping over themselves in their flight . And Early Spring seized the whip and said : `` If you must flog someone , let it be her , your daughter . Drive the demons out of her and teach her to stay away from my husband '' ! ! But the old man turned on her , jerking the whip from her hand . `` Get into your hovel '' ! ! He spat . `` Go back to that double-married man of yours who so parades his fine body among the young women . Keep him back , if you must tell me what to do . I will be the one to confront my daughter , not the wife of him who leads her to sin '' ! ! She retreated before the naked shame in the old man and the fury beyond it and sank into the darkness of her lodge where Walitzee stirred , mumbling , sitting up in a half stupor to say : `` What worrisome thing happens ? ? I thought I dreamed of wolves fighting '' . But she went to him and pressed herself against his nakedness , smelling the stale odor of the whisky he had stolen from TuHulHulZote . She said , `` There is nothing that concerns you here . Lie back and go to sleep . But do not dream . Do not let the wicked spirits enter your brain '' . He sank back , sighing , and was soon asleep again . Outside , the old man , beyond all the curses of the spirits his daughter bore , went to her and twisted the gnarled talons of his fingers in her hair and turned her and pushed her rudely ahead of him into the trees where the moon sent out a thousand arms . And , shoving her against a spruce , her back to him , he retreated with the whip and made it whine and crack in the damp air , shortening its arc until it narrowed to her flesh and the sound of it snarled and cracked , settling its own cruel demons on her shoulders while she stood as unchanged , as dark and motionless as ever , her eyes open and staring at the pale delineaments of the bark so close to her face . She said to him , her father , `` How was I begotten , in pain or joy ? ? Is it for me to be forbidden the flesh you made grow on me ? ? They all know your foolish name '' ! ! She stared at the pale tracings on the tree , hearing her breath refracted from it , her face close and touching at time the rough edges of the bark . She felt the lash bite and heard her father say in crazed monosyllables words which had no meaning , like , `` unnnt ! ! Sssshoo '' ! ! The sounds of an animal in rage and despair . Suddenly the lash stopped fighting the air and she heard Pile of Clouds say in his high , quavering voice : `` Did you follow me to see my shame ? ? Move from the line or I will settle the whip on you . Move ! ! Do you hear the anger of the whip's whine '' ? ? Turning , the girl saw Dookiyoon standing between , his narrow shoulders unbent , his arms hanging long and resigned . He said , `` Let me take her blows , for there are demons in me too '' . Then , without knowing why , she found herself running from them , fleeing wildly through the trees , dodging her own shadows until she came to a little hollow in the rocky ground with a big stone in the center behind which she knelt and hid , listening to the madness of her heart and wanting for once to cry . For a while the young men waited outside the lodge of TuHulHulZote , glorying in his harsh language as he talked with himself . He shouted like a hoarse old mastiff , his hair stiff and bristling . He ranted and prophesied the doom of his enemies , walking in circles in and out of his living place , drinking stolen whisky in great , gasping draughts until finally , incoherent and sick , he fell into his own oblivion . He amused the young men who had been silent long enough . But they could taste the appeasement of violence and retribution through his antics . Now they moved , rubbing their flesh alive again , disdaining the gloom they saw in the faces around them . They came out and held their games and races . It was they who held the future in their hands . They went into the sun together and paraded grandly in their war clothes , painting their faces with the sacred attis dug far off in the cave of skeletons . They danced the paxam wildly at night , the war dance , and dipped their arrowheads in the venom of rattlesnakes and rode their horses in swift maneuvers , firing their few guns in unison at some indeterminate signal . Walitzee was among them , and Sarpsis , and they wore red blankets which flew like broad wings in the air of their passing . And a very young one , Swan Necklace , tried to emulate them and followed timidly . Yellow Wolf was there , nephew of the young chief by an older brother long dead , in whom also the disordered chemistries of youth worked . He would spring bolt upright suddenly after sitting quietly with inaction , because something had boiled over in his fermenting juices . All the young men , Alokut among them , challenged them in matched racing . They raced and maneuvered for war , swinging their horses in single file and then abreast like cavalry . At times they would ride frenziedly through the camp , letting the women see their courage , how handsome they were in their regalia . Then again they would stand in circles making other preparations . They combed their hair and streaked it at the part and greased the bangs so that the hair above their foreheads stood rigid like the tails of sage hens making love . Walitzee whitened his leggings with clay , knowing the girl watched from her place in the trees . He saw himself in a superior reflection , and he was as a speeding arrow from the taut bow , hurtling with a mad grace , his maleness shining and scented with meadow rue . He was always aware of the women's eyes which followed him , admiring him . And the suspicious , envenomed eyes of Pile of Clouds . And those of Early Spring , haunted and now full of hurt and envy . He felt so much like laughing ; ; even like shouting and crying out from the hilltops from which he could descend as an eagle in a mad caper from the cliffs . He and Sarpsis planned a great parade with the young men . They would give one final testimony of their challenge to let the people see their arrogance . They would ride with streaming amulets , their colors ripening in the sun , shouting the last bellicosity of a nation in the throes of death . And so the sun came up again and for a moment its color was the young men's blood , shifting then into the full heat and outcry which ran with their hearts . They mounted their horses and rode off into the hills . The , young chief stared at the wall of his lodge , , listening . The sound rose on the other side of the hills , vanished and rose again and he could imagine the mad , disheveled hoofs of the Appaloosas , horses the white men once had called the Dogs of Hell . He saw them in fleet images as they came rolling and now burst across the ridge . Standing then with the others , peering into the sun , he saw the bright , multicolored legion , their hair flying like dark banners , only the thunder , the roll of drums , the mad cacophony of the hoofs accompanying them . They leaned into the wind and seemed like one thousand-legged monster hurtling and plunging until suddenly they rose straight in their saddles and in one terrifying voice shouted , ejaculated their grotesque cry of war .
'You see, there are seven members of the Central Anarchist

for thou knowest thy servant.
She was still looking at him with the most speaking amazement.
I should not wonder, if he was to be in the greatest
There kept their watch the legions, while the Grand 

of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city.
strong, set up the watchmen, prepare the ambushes: for the LORD hath
him down again.
and grooves out the bark from top to bottom, ere running off into the
There was too much wind to make the high part of the new Cobb pleasant
were in Siphmoth, and to them which were in Eshtemoa, 30:29 And to
United.  But to grant it thee unjust, 

3:36 And under the custody and charge of the sons of Merari shall be
really attached to her.  He has been very deceitful! and,
the heathen.
forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of

Where the mocking-bird sounds his delicious gurgles, cackles,
or his umbrella-handle, or his book, or his boots or whatever

on her side, and thoughtfulness on his own,--"how YOU
was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was
voices of angels; their prayers were more earnest than ever before,
in them.
And immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.
into making her the wife of Sir William.
between Succoth and Zeredathah.
I meant but to serve you, that's all.  Such a rare piece of china-work


9:14 And the king commanded it so to be done: and the decree was given
they might accuse him.
Just.  No, no, no--I never see anybody till I have done my chocolate,
lodged that night among the people.

brutal and actual as this. Even his great presence of mind could
    falling pall-like round me,
and mellow light.  It made a little greasy street of St. Martin's
bloody man, and thou man of Belial: 16:8 The LORD hath returned upon
2:17 Then said I unto them, Ye see the distress that we are in, how
above upon it.
11:34 Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat, 11:35 Lod, and Ono, the valley of


9:32 For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him, and we
you-ward is not weak, but is mighty in you.
it is: that I may know how frail I am.
his friend Perry, to whom he had, in fact, though unconsciously,
not help suspecting that he was not quite so ignorant as he appeared to
Mutual enquiries on common subjects passed:  neither of them, probably,
faces?--have they no bowels for a laugh?  And look ye, Mr.

should wear it for her.
hosts is his name.
a cave at Makkedah.
2:31 And the king said unto him, Do as he hath said, and fall upon
"You are quit right," sobbed that wholly demoralized journalist.
defied his enemy to mortal combat in the open court, then the
to complain, however.  Mr Elliot was better to look at than most men,
thou bring me to nothing.


still.
     "And what is the shade of difference?" asked the criminologist
Captain Benwick had been seen flying by their house, with a countenance
there, and the dome was there, that he was going to climb down
delight than in making a filigree basket for a spoilt child.
21:2 Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden
a Souldier, and affear'd? what need we feare? who knowes



of earth.  Lifted by those eternal swells, you needs must own the
keep himself to his own inheritance.
afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the LORD thy God is with thee
When the round-mouth'd guns out of the smoke and smell I love
carrying on so long."
who perfectly approves the acquaintance, should put an end to it,
them that dream.
fish gate, and the tower of Hananeel, and the tower of Meah, even unto
36:4 And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel; 36:5 And
she may drive her son to.  I have seen Mr. Ferrars two
licked up his blood; and they washed his armour; according unto the
would not be such a fool as to send a lame man? "
which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own?  6:20
Whispers of heavenly death murmur'd I hear,
so long a time; as it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice,
God, because we have sinned against him.
days for ever and ever.
demanded cannot the wise men, the astrologers, the magicians, the
meeting. Not one tiny detail more about what we mean to do must be



   Ant. Belike they had some notice of the people

the day.  He should like to see the old house again exceedingly,
detected my own blunder, I raved at the blunders of the post.--
they are perhaps the most agreeable of any.  Mr. Weston's dining-room
apparition.  Then, calling upon Fedallah to change places with him,
"If I could find a spud or something I'd do it myself."

20:5 And there was war again with the Philistines; and Elhanan the son
"I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look."
Therefore thus saith the LORD of Jehoiakim king of Judah; He shall
Elinor now began to make the tea, and Marianne was
put in his fingers, and took out a little silver penny.  "There, he shall


stayeth his rough wind in the day of the east wind.
killed any person, and whosoever hath touched any slain, purify both
43:16 And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of
It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at
plug it, even if found, in this life's howling gale?  Starbuck!
I play not marches for accepted victors only, I play marches for
or interest fair, and therefore purposely kept at a distance;
iniquity of Eli's house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor
sharply to the panel and burst in the door.

   Ophe. And hath giuen countenance to his speech,
bidden him.
28:17 For again the Edomites had come and smitten Judah, and carried
highest promise.
And that must end us; that must be our cure-- 
certain years with a great army and with much riches.
those toy grottos that the children make.  In one place, however,
if the sound of Mrs. Elton's voice from the sitting-room had not
almost with one swing.
32:10 Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion.

turned down the Laughing Brook, taking the greatest care to keep out of
of fourteen, never since the loss of her dear mother, known the happiness
Now resting, blessed and hallowed the seventh day, 


a disconcerted expression, as did, perhaps, that of St John the Baptist.
the folding-doors and walked with exultation from one drawing-room
21:33 Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass


disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled.

24:5 I sent Moses also and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt, according to

all the earth.

2:47 And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and

Giue me the Daggers: the sleeping, and the dead,
otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven.

would joyfully disintegrate himself from it, or even frustrate it.
but she was a lady, and even, on a second glance, a rather needlessly
braces--though not a sail was left aloft.  For the moment all the
"But, no, I'm wrong; I consulted a book, too.  I  picked it up
of all evil.


air and complexion, unless they are coarser featured than any
counsel against thee, saying, 7:6 Let us go up against Judah, and vex
Why do's the Drumme come hither?
34:25 Therefore he knoweth their works, and he overturneth them in the
the corn, the new wine, and the oil, which was commanded to be given
and the past and the future, on a subject so interesting,
   Lady. Giue him tending,


I have brought him forth before you, and specially before thee, O king
enter in.  Then James Turnbull looked up and saw the high
Here too, though long represt, can never be destroy'd,
31:13 And they took their bones, and buried them under a tree at

12:20 For I fear, lest, when I come, I shall not find you such as I
it; and from whom, think you?  Why, from the very booby that would have

Mine speake of seuenty Senators, that dy'de
But that it will be a fortunate preference is more that I can promise.

to Ramothgilead.
dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited imagination, and all the
Till at his second bidding Darkness fled, 
and all their set.  And then, her reserve--I never could attach
scriptures daily, whether those things were so.

pairs of shoes lay on the bench, most beautifully made, and no sign of
insurrection.
and came down again with a more ponderous slash, splitting
   La. Fie for shame
temptations.
16:18 Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a

The heav'd challenge from the east that moment over my head,
Mrs Smith looked at her again, looked earnestly, smiled,


over till I come into Judah; 2:8 And a letter unto Asaph the keeper of
     2
Is there not Raine enough in the sweet Heauens

Do kisse the most exalted Shores of all.
The crazed, prisoners in jail, the horrible, rank, malignant,
children.
whale's eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy,
But Elinor--how are HER feelings to be described?--From
4:14 Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the

woman,--but she knew that this kind of blunder was too
1:2 And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters.
surprise, that not one word had yet been said of her present of the


best cut away his part of the hull and tow it home.  The fact is,
tarry not: 45:10 And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou
utmost interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical
19:34 For I will defend this city, to save it, for mine own sake, and
the very handsomest man that ever was, and a man that every body
24:1 In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim
them to the king of Babylon to Riblah.
the Spirit of the LORD shall carry thee whither I know not; and so
     "Yes," answered Brown, with his eye on the hose.  "`Both eyes bright,

Enter Rosincran and Guildensterne.
Of truth, in word mightier than they in arms; 
Strike as thou did'st at Caesar: For I know,
great it would have been.--An hundred miles, perhaps, instead of forty."
and wittier than all the world!  I wonder how she speaks of the Coles--
down on one knee as he spoke, 'we were trying--'
Made one with me, as I with thee am one. 
shrunken, so that it slowly filled, and that parched wood also

land within thy gates: 24:15 At his day thou shalt give him his hire,
coasts of Geshuri and Maachathi; and called them after his own name,
basons: and all these vessels, which Hiram made to king Solomon for

the biscuits and the tinned meat, and the milk.  You have the
Joseph's knees.
15:23 The rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all that
and very communicative; Jane would hardly eat any thing:--
account; 1:19 I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay
you my good friends, deserued at the hands of Fortune,
all the fish or have eaten so many. Besides, he didn't remember ever
1:12 Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of
    the transient,
idols.
hours?"
shalt dig therewith, and shalt turn back and cover that which cometh
Do stand but in a forc'd affection:
49:5 Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of
by the hand of them that were with me, I came into Damascus.
And thou shalt liue in this faire world behinde,

great Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale.  And as that famous great

sores, 16:21 And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from

harder and harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun, until some
Till he vnseam'd him from the Naue toth' Chops,
with her.
2:12 And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the
had been day.  And yet, though herds of whales were seen by night,
that she could not bring herself to speak of what she felt
The speediest of thy winged messengers, 
"I can guess; I know what I'd do with it if it was mine.  First, I'd buy
A muffled sonorous sound, a wailing word is borne through the air

in spreading the report, and you will find that you have
content if the world is ready to board and lodge me, while I am
thy fifty.
in it.  Nor is it (as the modern idiots would certainly say it is)
Cleanse the one with a gnawing and putrid gangrene, so sickening,
     welcome to keep."
when the swords are drawn.  And you and I have to do it while
father, coming close up to him, with angry gestures.  Piedro's mouth was
the law for her that hath born a male or a female.
he had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of
synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, From whence
Rather your dauntless virtue, whom the pain 
17:4 And the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea: for he had


Peace, the Charme's wound vp.
The gracious Judge without revile replied. 
All but the ties eternal, Time and Space,
and the two Miss Steeles, by whom their company, in fact
they looked unto the multitude, and, behold, they were dead bodies
Saul went in to cover his feet: and David and his men remained in the
fenced up to heaven, 9:2 A people great and tall, the children of the

and my people, to be destroyed, to be slain, and to perish. But if we
LORD, thou shalt offer for the meat offering of thy firstfruits green
The Life o'th' Building
But on the occasion in question, those dents looked deeper, even as
    the musical clank,
"One observation may, I think, be fairly drawn from
to commence at number one each time, as though he could not count
cut down; all they that bear silver are cut off.
Her own happiness, and her own spirits, were at
leaving the house, she was again called down stairs

with him, I suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity 'em!
"You speak as if you envied him."
2:27 And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Asher: and the
He earnestly pressed her, after giving the particulars
dust in the midst of the water.
depicted on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering the
     Of course I don't believe in the old legend about James I;

fury, eager to solve the riddle of his own bloodless sword. For
19:7 And all the men were about twelve.
cabinet there is no telling.  But a sudden stop was put to further
and a twelvemonth might pass without their being thrown together again,
combining ignorance with intellectualism. He regarded them as a
they said, He is a leper: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.
pass before them, and the LORD on the head of them.
lived with them until she grew up. Then she married, and had a little
22:25 My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation: I will pay
Queequeg in his own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous
furious man, it seems, in a boat.  And now his bandaged cry was, to
signature of II. A. N., has given a spirited sketch of a "BARRING OUT" at
morning clouds. But I tell you this, that you will have found
with the thought.  We measured the dining-room, and found
worshipped all the host of heaven, and served Baal.
Vpon old Brutus Statue: all this done,
'Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and looking
stood firm.
out of his wits.  Five men in this place, they tell me, five men
"never, never wilt thou capture him, old man--In Jesus' name no more
Of leaves and fuming rills, Aurora's fan, 
"Ah! my dear, I wish you would not make matches and foretell things,
said, Behold, let thine handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the
the taller, a white-haired Italian, taking his leave.  The shorter priest
He was sure that it had come from somewhere on the ground, so he peered
And of each one the core of life, namely happiness, is full of the
which shew unto us the way of salvation.
and very unexpectedly by them, asked the elder Misses

the admission to be gallant, which she had ever given in the first
4:4  That I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.
Was seiz'd by the spirit that trails in the lines underfoot,
forward, as if no other reception of her were felt sufficient.--
Uriel, though regent of the sun, and held 
79:8 O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender
shall not rise from the evil that I will bring upon her: and they
the countries, and will bring them to their own land, and feed them
would hardly allow it even to be very small, admired the situation,
42:14 When the priests enter therein, then shall they not go out of
a Bakers daughter. Lord, wee know what we are, but

and things wherewith one may edify another.
They are ultimate in their own right--they are calm, clear,
"I do not doubt it," replied he, rather astonished
119:6 Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy
the Lord GOD.
regarded as barbaric, and as involving cruelty to the cow.
it, that leaning too far over, it sucked him in, so that he died
Enter a King and Queene, very louingly; the Queene embracing
"He is heading straight to leeward, sir," cried Stubb, "right away
"Ay, my dear, I'll warrant you we do.  Mary always

a man struck with a shock of cold water, and he was plunging
I shall release tomorrow at dawn and escort to my outposts.

duty or business, what a hardship we should deem it;--and here are we,
     "And yet rather fruitless," he admitted; "if I die tonight
and perdition.
 But mercy changed death into sleep;
carefully churning and churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel
season contemporary with an unusually fine vintage of the vineyards

and what is Aaron, that ye murmur against him?  16:12 And Moses sent
them--"Come hither, broken-hearted; here is another life without the
that was wanted of greater elegance to the apartments.
means to marry him?"
But he was shot.  By whom?  By what?"
unto us the word of reconciliation.
his willingness to ship me.
covered.
faith in Christ.


39:4 Then said he, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezekiah

2:21 And Ruth the Moabitess said, He said unto me also, Thou shalt

affection again, and if her home be uncomfortable,
reveries, and for the space of some moments stood, or sat, or leaned
Then in the audience of all the people he said unto his disciples,
as must prevent any second application.  She must abide by the evil
55:13 Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree, and instead of
   Gent. I would not haue such a heart in my bosome,
me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim, phantom futures!  Stand by
    or far north or inland,
the declaration, nor witness its proofs without sometimes

a long time looking for the police."
60:1 Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the LORD is
All human thoughts come short, Supreme of things! 
27:14 But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wind,
"look at those jellies!" pointing to a confectioner's shop.  "I must buy

"Lord love you, lad! so we do; but we love ourselves better."
they chance to meet at sea, they first go through such a string of
such a shameful sight, completely stifle her upbraidings against the
    is sure, and the island Cuban is sure,
Could you on this faire Mountaine leaue to feed,
The moment he had done so the strange young woman had one more
had his daughter attempted it, and she was therefore safe from

Luckily Lady Middleton's mother had arrived at Barton
which he had endeavoured to soften it, and they always
For Mrs. Weston there was nothing to be done; for Harriet every thing.


the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine; and I will make you
4:14 Now because we have maintenance from the king's palace, and it


which tells man, in every thing given to his view or his feelings,



He shook his head with a smile, and looked as if he had very little
Northward, young men of Mannahatta, the target company from an
5:16 Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundation of the
For room to me stars kept aside in their own rings,

because of thy judgments, O LORD.



he found that the heat and animation of a public room was necessary
8:16 And he brought me into the inner court of the LORD's house, and,
The gardens and shrubberies would be kept in almost as high order
shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are
14:9 Fools make a mock at sin: but among the righteous there is
10:14 How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed?
to those of neighbours.  This has always been your doctrine,

     2
shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand, after the former manner
believe that there could be any necessity for removing.--"We'll see what
"All the better," said the Secretary grimly, planting a foot in

Not distant far from thence a murmuring sound 
Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.


up his garment.
habitation of justice, and mountain of holiness.
"If you mean, my dear Louisa," said Leonora, "that you like me the best,
I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.
 
of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.
accidentally hearing of the possibility of Kellynch Hall being to let,
Enter a Messenger.
"Oh, yes, you look queer enough," she said, with ringing
When I talked of a whole history, therefore, you see I was
of knocking the Master down, and then fell under the same almost
been feeling lately.--I did not quite like your looks on Tuesday,
32:18 And he said, It is not the voice of them that shout for mastery,
scribe: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king's sons: 27:33

She dreampt to night, she saw my Statue,
"Dr. Renard! Dr. Renard!"
2:37 Thou, O king, art a king of kings: for the God of heaven hath
'You did!' said the Hatter.
Had witchcraft in't; he grew into his Seat,
or grace, to make the past, as they were connected together,
And let the fowl be multiplied, on the Earth. 
     "You may remember," said the priest quietly, "that the wooden fence
by the river side.
summer, had liked to have tricked me out of my new hat.  Promise me you


I have witness'd the true lightning, I have witness'd my cities electric,

impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is
an injury.
this people, which they have spoken unto thee: they have well said all
my servants' sakes, that I may not destroy them all.
had achieved the ladder and the picture.  Its panelled front was in
stew-ponds, and a very pretty canal; and every thing,
with Naomi out of the country of Moab: 2:7 And she said, I pray you,
line-of-battle ship could hardly keep him under then.  In the Shore
in this, but in many other circumstances, reason enough
}  Still Though the One I Sing
old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the shoulders, and
the wicked one.
is vain to serve God: and what profit is it that we have kept his
9:17 The words of wise men are heard in quiet more than the cry of him
11:18 For first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear


5:9 Then was king Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his countenance was

chance blunders of a forger, as you say.  But three is a mystical number;
for expense, no affection for strangers, no profession,
odious to David, Hanun and the children of Ammon sent a thousand
behaviour, and what, I assure you, I can't countenance."
be clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold about thy neck, and
all the trees of the field.
gardeners never to be put out of their way--delicious fruit--
you.
27:8 He was five and twenty years old when he began to reign, and

he said, "and you thought you were the success.  But I have succeeded


eager to make use of the present leisure for getting out,
the son of Abiel.
Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.
Enter Macduffe.
Through tempered heavenly; for that mortal dint, 
O what shall I hang on the chamber walls?
of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.

the earlier Puritans, and half-believed this wild Indian to be a son
it impossible to restrain the loud indignation of all the spectators.
the LORD have spoken it, and I will do it.
"I can't stay, indeed, Miss Barbara; for my mother's broth is just

1:20 And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving
the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity,
We stand self-pois'd in the middle, branching thence over the world,

which carried them through the greater part of the morning,
transgressions: but I will save them out of all their dwellingplaces,
your burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings;
they were overtaken by Mr. John Knightley returning from the
67:7 God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him.
Save by those shadowy expiations weak, 
wildly into his coat (leaving his waistcoat on the pavement), and
who seemed to be in great agitation.
Of cold Olympus ruled the middle air, 
say to Fanshaw that no doubt this meant the pilot must keep both eyes

And yet unknown, is as not had at all. 
2:7 So went Satan forth from the presence of the LORD, and smote Job
4:12 Now a thing was secretly brought to me, and mine ear received a
19:23 And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
"Come Miss Woodhouse, Miss Otway, Miss Fairfax, what are you all doing?--
"We are detaining the lady," said Count Gregory, with politeness;
"And I have not forgotten," said Emma, "how sure you were that he
They pass the planets seven, and pass the fixed, 
Being now settled in their house, they went every day regularly to work;
Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having
David, saying, God make the name of Solomon better than thy name, and

he hath set the world upon them.
if not, it shall turn to you again.
tried to know her better; had she done her part towards intimacy;
16:6 And he cast stones at David, and at all the servants of king
hurt: 7:7 Then will I cause you to dwell in this place, in the land
Ahasuerus, and great among the Jews, and accepted of the multitude of


eternally holds its peace, and ignores you, though you dig
great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and
33:5 For the LORD had said unto Moses, Say unto the children of
with great good humour, "Perhaps, Elinor, it WAS rather
Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, like
have habits of pilfering continue to practise them often, when the
on.
His starry helm unbuckled showed him prime 
offended me; she is wonderfully improved within this last month.  For one
off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked,
And rhythmic rasping of thy sands and waves,

them throughout their generations.
With terrour through the dark aereal hall. 
the way, Commodore!" cried one, to a great dromedary that of a sudden
breadth of one curtain four cubits: the curtains were all of one size.
44:22 I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and,
sent them away also unto their tents, then he blessed them, 22:8 And
The mound above is flatted with the spades--silence,

seemed every probability of her being permanently fixed there;
of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, which
And addrest them againe to sleepe
pillow rush herds of walruses and whales.
could hee digge without Armes? Ile put another question
pleasure at hearing it in public, or in having it made known to all my
'I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

That feares him much: and my misgiuing still


them, has a totally different air from those engaged in regular
(I will not call it our concluding voyage,
reaped away Ahab's leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field.  No
came along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag.
in earnest contemplation of some print, and she not only might have
I hear the sound of the Hebrew lyre,
    The pepper when he pleases!'

39:21 He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his strength: he goeth
Some weeks after Francisco had been with the painter, they had occasion
flowers in her hand.  Cecilia contemplated it with delight.  "How I
eye-glass.  I would confess it even to that old ass in brown
me in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it


for her entertainment so much that he became quite a buffoon.  Instead of
testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal

that it did not take her wholly by surprize.  She frequently gave
merit her present unhappiness, and consoled by the belief


27:13 Then said Pilate unto him, Hearest thou not how many things they

ashore, and whether all whaling ships did not find their own
almost to a suicidal swagger.  His one wild chance of coming out
    and strong life,

eat straw like the bullock: and dust shall be the serpent's meat. They
sufficed him for his long walk, or his short, as the year varied;
Sawcy, and ouer-bold, how did you dare
sudden bursts, perseverance and weariness, health and sickness.
you all asunder by your voices, and I can guess pretty well at all your
thing!  Mr. Finsbury, I protest--
in itself to raise any thing less tender than pity,
said. He ran away and got a very long, very strong rope, and he got his
fulfil all my will.
2:11 And as soon as we had heard these things, our hearts did melt,


119:114 Thou art my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word.

But MacIan had taken a stride forward and stood there shaken and
offerings into the house of the LORD. And the congregation brought in
Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to
I cannot wish to prevent it, provided the weather be what it ought,
Marquis sprang back from the stroke without a stagger, and Syme
The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart; one, far to




Which uttering, thus he to his Father spake. 
    may become a hero,
in turn but mirrors back his own mysterious self.  Great pains, small
22:62 And Peter went out, and wept bitterly.
Chapter 12

by the wrong of one part of the Kellynch Hall plan, when it burst on her,
Now is he to take Geulles, horridly Trick'd
had maddened Turnbull's eye and brain, was sitting a figure which
and lose his own soul?  8:37 Or what shall a man give in exchange for
and offer them for an offering unto the LORD.
marching amid his aides and marshals in the van of countless cohorts

"'Oh certainly,' the Captain, and the key clicked.
were effects that laid open the probability of greater.

little stick and took hold of the ends, while the Tortoise bit firmly on
replied with something which I could not even understand myself.

Which way I fly is Hell; myself am Hell; 
for her to Brunswick Square.--Isabella had been pleased with Harriet;


and he came, bringing his friend also, which was more than
to the tea-table where Elinor presided, and whispered--
of Judah came down to the king of Israel.
    Poet:
25:8 Ask thy young men, and they will shew thee. Wherefore let the
they, if we have found grace in thy sight, let this land be given unto
"Quite the contrary," replied Elinor,

see her and hear her--no, I am afraid you will not hear her at all,
so many sacks were sold, it did not signify who ate the remainder.

"I shall value all these flowers, because they must be your

11:3 Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of
and even the lamp-posts above his head.  He felt suddenly happy
shades lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him.  In
The cook might well be careworn, for cookery was the Major's hobby.
the charade, with its "ready wit"--but then the "soft eyes"--
But it was not the wind; or, if it was the wind, it was two
mean to say that he did not dream it--I am sure I have sometimes
fast, when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any
grass.

somehow to Ahab conveyed a wondrousness unknown before.
5:12 Haman said moreover, Yea, Esther the queen did let no man come in
lay in his bosom, and was unto him as a daughter.

got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of the Lobster
thy misery, and remember it as waters that pass away: 11:17 And thine
"Marianne has not shyness to excuse any inattention
and his wife good luck, so that they never needed any more help.
pool where Buster Bear had given him such a fright. Sure enough, just as
never thought he'd have come.  Why, now we can hold out as long as you


square of gold.  There is nothing more beautiful than thus to look
unexpectedly rising to the surface in the remotest and most sullen
23:12 And when it was day, certain of the Jews banded together, and

can discover what the original nature of things would have been

his beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook!  And yet you come here,
thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I
     3
3:7 He hath hedged me about, that I cannot get out: he hath made my
them that were his heirs, saith the LORD.

upon your father enough to be sensible of it, though he did not then
her according to her work; according to all that she hath done, do
Jews, and part with the apostles.
son of Baasha to reign over Israel in Tirzah, two years.
of the wicked shall perish.

Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites,

    and the spirits thereof would be evident and amicable with me.
36:6 He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to the
As deere to me, as are the ruddy droppes
Wood-violets, the little delicate pale blossoms called innocence,

Go some of ye,
To bring forth fruits, joy and eternal bliss. 
of counsellors they are established.
I do not know whether you have ever happened to see any
Isabella sent quite as good an account of her visitor as could

Shakers, where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secret
What thing thou art, thus double-formed, and why, 


son of Harum.
its offspring, necessity, had required to be sacrificed.
Finsb.  (packing up band boxes).  Well, ma'm, I'm glad I have your
heareth reproof getteth understanding.


the open field, and will cause all the fowls of the heaven to remain
land which I have given them; and this house, which I have sanctified
pity, approbation, censure, and doubt.  There were moments

on his feet.  In spite of these he walked straight into the sea



certainly have been impertinent."
Rapidly crossing the West with springy gait and descending the Allghanies,
12:15 And they said unto her, Thou art mad. But she constantly
down to the pit.
of all their party at the rooms in the evening; and as Lady Dalrymple
under his black cloak.
when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?  2:28 And did I choose him
the south: also the robbers of thy people shall exalt themselves to
Enter Ghost.
service, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works; and the last to
absent-minded young men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth,
Various, with boastful argument portrayed, 

turned the back with shame! so shall Moab be a derision and a
distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of
virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee.
"Ah!" he cried, "I wish your father might be half as easily convinced
Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presents; and he had riches and honour in

14:27 And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea

the paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it

"Cannot you, my dear Emma--cannot you form a guess as to what you

also given unto us his holy Spirit.
must refute it.  He could refer Sir Walter to all who knew him;
Mr. Elton.  It is downright labour to him where ladies are concerned.
On the contrary, every friend must be made still more
She must have found the evening agreeable, Mr. Knightley, because she
year the death of God in a shop in Ludgate became a less and less
"I think you will like him," said Elinor, "when you
15:7 I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one
Mrs Musgrove had not a word to say in dissent; she could not accuse herself


He was six feet tall, he was over eighty years old, his sons were
To elaborate is no avail, learn'd and unlearn'd feel that it is so.
the priest of Baal before the altars.
"No," said Archer, "he had half a crown on purpose to pay for them."
"Do tell, now," cried Bildad, "is this Philistine a regular member of
for certain, but Mrs MacNab will tell you a great deal more than
sailors called them ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the
usury and increase, and thou hast greedily gained of thy neighbours by
In yonder nether world where shall I seek 
That wished the mountains now might be again 
bethought him that through that gate lay the route to his vengeance,
very likely to Randalls; yes, I think it was to Randalls.

restless bed.  All night he was starting from frightful dreams; or else,

And so she began inquiring after her directly, saying, `I know you
CHAPTER 10
kindred, and all the house of Israel wholly, are they unto whom the

To the cannons, the grim artillery,
You furnish your parts toward eternity,
frights, so common to such whales; I think that all this indirectly

the brigand trap.  And now his red and trembling hand went reluctantly
I believe you did not hear me telling the others in the drawing-room
42:4 But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren;
At thy right hand voluptuous, as beseems 
And so I doe commend you to their backs.


Enough O deed impromptu and secret,
A lady, without a family, was the very best preserver of furniture
24:54 And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him,
10:21 For the pastors are become brutish, and have not sought the
(you will remember) the convict was keeping his bullet;
Forests at the bottom of the sea, the branches and leaves,
Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not?  2:19 And Jesus said unto
"Tell me that one!" pleaded the hermit.
The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of
flour, and honey, and oil: and thou wast exceeding beautiful, and thou
and Haman come this day unto the banquet that I have prepared for him.
this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God.
for the house was from an Admiral Croft, with whom he shortly afterwards
being an honest man, and indeed whose integrity had hitherto been proof
That is what Farmer Brown's boy said when he found that Buster Bear had
substance that was in their possession, in the midst of all Israel:
Every year she grew more unselfish, and every year she worked harder.
convicted, and seemed fixed to the spot, without power of motion.
wrath, and ye shall be melted in the midst therof.
thy neighbour's hand, ye shall not oppress one another: 25:15
with padlocks on their mouths; the savage sea-hawks sailed with
Lady Elliot mainly relied for the best help and maintenance of
And as in the great hunting countries of India, the stranger at a
thrust upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm
have to cut this corn ourselves.' And then he called his son and said,
obliged to be almost always either talking together or silent together.

prize of a handsome set of gardening-tools was to be given to the person
35:3 Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that
descriptions extant of autumn, that season of peculiar and
the hand of Shishak.
the little merchants.  They rejoiced to hear his praises, and repeated
Baal.
 
that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.
Why, they must be as sentimental as a man who thinks a woman
And, left to herself, if evil thence ensue, 
thousands of our rural boys and young men born along its line, the
the captains of the men of war which went with him, Come near, put
   Titin. O Cassius, Brutus gaue the word too early,
affection on the side of the former, the two ladies might

in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it

month (the lst of June), to the most amiable.  Mrs. Villars applauded the
Ruby or topaz, to the twelve that shone 
her as being rather ill-natured, and suggested the suspicion
which followed it, he had not understood the perfect excellence
17:52 And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and
Just.  Again! again!  Mrs. Landlady, this is downright--I have said you




and rapid and resolute as he was, he seemed almost to hesitate
"should not stand upon such ceremony."
Egypt shall die, from the first born of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his

From it and all henceforth expanding, doubting no more, resolute,


as to this fortunate Miss Hawkins, which could conduce to place
That we are made of stuffe, so flat, and dull,
Fins.  Indubitably, sir:  but the misfortune is--he! he! he!--Mr. Talbot,

8:26 Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities: for we know not
hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORD
my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, are encamped in the open
now?"
But O from the hills how the cannon were thinning and thinning them!
brother shall be thy prophet.
account books bound in superior old shark-skin.  There was a fishy

In all other respects, her visit began and proceeded very well.
sounds of the united voices gave only momentary interruptions.
all intolerable moments, the word was with the unworldly.
portion of the whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly
is a mare's nest."
as a father the son in whom he delighteth.
6:14 Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and
some of the plainest and most palpable wonders of the world, that
12:47 And that servant, which knew his lord's will, and prepared not
stronger than, if _I_ had been Miss Campbell, would have been at all
There was once a shepherd-boy who kept his flock at a little distance
Little Elsa cried bitterly when he was gone, for she did not want to

art a stranger, and also an exile.
point of policy, insisted, with great dignity and in very bad
26:12 And I will walk among you, and will be your God, and ye shall be
Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent
   Ham. As th'art a man, giue me the Cup.
men in hither to night of the children of Israel to search out the
From their graves in the trenches ascending,
48:25 And by the border of Simeon, from the east side unto the west

Most like a Souldier ordered Honourably:
fire all the morning, he was happily placed, quite at his ease,
halfpence.
    are not original with me,
copy, that his enthusiastic and generous master, with warm encomiums,

the wind. As she passed the travellers, she turned her face to them and

all work of goats' hair, and all things made of wood.
the advantage of a classical education, finished in one of the
From reason; and to servitude reduce 
attachment to Willoughby, had contributed to place her;--
laughed so much and made fun of him so much, that at last his boy began
a word I say, and Walter is growing quite as bad."
12:3 The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the sons of Shemaah the
Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle, and

him too well, to be so prudent as I ought to have been.--
In the air he was caught by a breeze and taken up higher than the trees.


She fair, divinely fair, fit love for Gods! 
transgressions of Israel upon him I will also visit the altars of
thought of sleeping with him.  It was fair to presume that being a
1:16 I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to great
Willoughby's sake--and now who cares for me? Who regards me?"

quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the coast of


15:16 How much more abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh
of its mistress.

otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a
"The WHITE Whale--a Sperm Whale--Moby Dick, have ye seen him?
every city shall be forsaken, and not a man dwell therein.
that Miss Fairfax was nearly dashed from the vessel and that Mr. Dixon
21:21 And all the men of his city shall stone him with stones, that he
stand there before the LORD.

3:4 For verily, when we were with you, we told you before that we
him!"
I stand as on some mighty eagle's beak,
1:3 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Damascus, and for
her weight in gold--in silver at least.  But tell us, child, how came you

them should swim out, and escape.
27:35 And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken away
At least, however, I cannot be worse off than I should have been,
Christ shall rise first: 4:17 Then we which are alive and remain shall
White, black, and gray, with all their trumpery. 
I led her blushing like the morn: All Heaven, 
43:5 But Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the
that Elinor changed colour, attended with agitation,
While they stand at home at the door he is dead already,
Wherever he goes men and women accept and desire him,
and stronger and smarter than he. That was good common sense advice, but
they had not done sacrifice unto them.
sweet and so sad that it made Death think of his garden in the
larger and larger till it leapt upon their backs bellowing, and
and to offer them every accommodation from his own house

The whole calamity, with the falling form of Macey, was plainly
mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering;
I candidly confess a queer, queer race, of novel fashion,
order, he dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the


himself that he should be able to conceal the true cause of the accident.
and Mrs Smith, observing the high colour in her face, said--
cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs, but I shall
expected the thing that was said to him.  At last he said:
     "I dare say he's got good reason to cover his ears, like King Midas,"
expectation, and of Egypt their glory.
from intellectual solitude.  She dearly loved her father, but he
ship, that they should come and help them. And they came, and filled
   Rosin. Beleeue what?


O for the voices of animals--O for the swiftness and balance of fishes!
Captain?"--glancing at the ivory leg.
    around the globe.
it to make it stop.
"Marianne," cried Frederick, "do you remember the man in the mask?"
 
Of Life immense in passion, pulse, and power,
16:11 Let no man therefore despise him: but conduct him forth in
LORD, so shall ye say unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel
Or padling in your necke with his damn'd Fingers,
they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth
Whether Caesar will come forth to day, or no:
be the first to admit that Buster Bear is as great a hero as some of you
Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and with their
of course, by refusing to allow a crucifix in his house, or round
whirred and fluttered in the undergrowth, as if imprisoned in

with her!

money, thou shalt not make merchandise of her, because thou hast
in in my life, and I am going to act accordingly. Gregory, I gave
is really interested in the absent!--she will tell me every thing.
removed Israel out of his sight, as he had said by all his servants
spoil to the nations.

The gallant Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and to


will he not lay hold on it, and lift it out?  12:12 How much then is a
6:11 And we desire that every one of you do shew the same diligence to
so will be his manner all the while he dwelleth in the country of the
should fall?  Had I remained in England, perhaps--but I
 
so direct, as marked a perfect agreement between them.
61:2 From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is

too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel
14:20 And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot
yarns were all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the
Saw many I loved in the street or ferry-boat or public assembly, yet

wise men.
thee; and we will hear it, and do it.
say, they have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night

both on Mrs. Jennings and her daughter; and her
pledge of him for a strange woman.
righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.
14:7 For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will

an antelope on the mountains, his arms were free to use any gesture
"Whereabouts did you meet the one man on your march?"
resisted him . . . and the old devil put them on the Supreme
"But it is not stealing; we don't mean to steal; only to borrow it; and
house had produced almost the conviction of Marianne's
you know, since she was here.  We never were so long without seeing
Of Doric land; or who with Saturn old 
"Oh, my captain, my captain!--noble heart--go not--go not!--see, it's
on the dress and figure of the wearer.  It seemed to be
"Haul in--haul in!" cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing round
opened he not his mouth: 8:33 In his humiliation his judgment was
miserable!

happened, many years ago.
the grace of Christ unto another gospel: 1:7 Which is not another; but
"I dare say," replied Mrs. Weston, smiling, "that I thought
should Marianne fail to do it, she turned into the parlour


       An' pit her in his bag,
and bring it to the tabernacle of the congregation: 4:6 And the priest
  Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was

Our lacke is nothing but our leaue. Macbeth
one who was more startling than a devil.  The incomprehensible
and within an hour after Mr. Harris's arrival, she set off,
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
opinion of his son; and so briskly did she begin, that the young
The danger, and the lurking enemy 
18:23 And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their

21:24 And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light
9:1 Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power
angel, nor spirit: but the Pharisees confess both.

their fruits.
the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his
disaster itself.
changing the subject, he said abruptly:  "He has a daughter--and a son."

"Oh! dear, no, never."
She merely said, in the course of some trivial chat, "Well, Harriet,
For I am Arm'd so strong in Honesty,
I am fill'd with them, and I will fill them in return.)
Antony, Lepidus, Artimedorus, Publius, and the Soothsayer.
went out before the host that came to Samaria, and said unto them,


will give thee a crown of life.

   Cinna. I am Cinna the Poet, I am Cinna the Poet
"You know her disposition, and may believe how eagerly
[*The author has seen a pair of shoes, such as here described, made in a
temple of the LORD, and from the pillars which Hezekiah king of Judah
incapable of protrusion.  If hereafter any highly cultured, poetical
was that which arises from the fair estimation of the encountered
43:3 And it was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw,
fathers among the thousands of Israel.
shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the north with
the family of the Ahiramites: 26:39 Of Shupham, the family of the
to be done to the basket, that it must be impossible
may be conceived.
said, Balaam refuseth to come with us.
time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and
As when thou stoodest in Heaven upright and pure; 
even beneath February's snow.  No one having previously heard his
fancying interesting dialogues, and inventing elegant letters;

thou dwellest in the midst of a rebellious house, which have eyes to
 NURSE'S SONG
salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer,
Surrey side at this point there ran out into the Thames, seeming

     27
16:3 Take counsel, execute judgment; make thy shadow as the night in
not have signified whether he did or no.  Can you think your friend
Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them, and three sabbath days
keep these Master Sweepstakes waiting.  Decide--do you choose to go with
it seemed like a weaker sun. It gave, not the sense of bright
DAGGOO (SPRINGING).

8:53 For thou didst separate them from among all the people of the
was just sufficient to show a slender, well-bred figure in an
shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian.
at such a time, or still less on such an errand.  But as he passed under
11:8 (According as it is written, God hath given them the spirit of
By strange conveyance filled each hollow nook; 
his ways.

27:11 The men of Arvad with thine army were upon thy walls round
The Noble Brutus, thrusting this report
103:11 For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his
"This man is almost too gallant to be in love," thought Emma.
obliging of you."

Supported by the conviction of having done nothing to
coming into still closer contact with the spout, whether with some
FORGIVE AND FORGET.

arms.  The dancers break off when she comes in, and direct their
productive of such countless jokes, that its character
25:27 It is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search their own
"The evil of the distance from Enscombe," said Mr. Weston, "is, that
All giuen to mine eare
You cannot be ignorant, Mrs. Elton, of my connexion with the family,
years and six months: and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three
must," said the farmer.  "However, I can show you, Sir Arthur, just for
service to her, or else it is to be attributed to an excellent
thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was


so in some small degree, with cetology, or the science of whales.
means certain.  I am sorry for it.  The introduction must be unpleasant,
been the consequence of your marrying Mr. Martin.  While you were in

saddle, as a knife is whipped out of its sheath, trailed him
work so hard for the glory of being your manager.  You have my free leave
did you ever eat a bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon
increase of God.
"When I don't see any little crabs on the shore, or sticking up out of
of the guinea-hen to tell over again to Mrs. Price, and the farmer

25:17 The troubles of my heart are enlarged: O bring thou me out of my
where she knew he was generally to be found at a much
that the bone was in its glory, the farthingale being then all the
is very shocking.  Our little readers will shudder as they read.  But it
Then, leaving MacIan in his attitude of prayer, Turnbull began to

That in his womb was hid metallic ore, 
given, and no stranger passed among them.
Offences gilded hand may shoue by Iustice,

And the hints about old men and mothers, and the offspring taken
"I have it in my pocket."



'Stupid things!' Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped
the iniquity of trespass, when they eat their holy things: for I the
house of Ahab according to all that was in mine heart, thy children of
    that dents the water,
have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food.


Singing the bedfellow's song, (O resistless yearning!
shall offer it at your own will.
through the cabin sky-light, sitting silly and dumfoundered before
9:36 Now there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, which by

another Bunger in the watery world?  Bunger, when you die, you ought
I vanish from my pearly throne, and who shall find my place.
stand no nonsense.

O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions.
Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil
whaler.  Hence, in the English, this thing of whaling good cheer is

"I would not have you trust to my blindness," said her father, stroking

63:3 Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall
And their border in the north quarter was from the bay of the sea at

4:16 But Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the host, unto
It is the greatest absurdity--Actually snowing at this moment!--
And thrice his head thus wauing vp and downe;

CHAPTER 87
24:6 And Shemaiah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, one of the Levites,
It is a most uncommon complexion, with her dark eye-lashes and hair--
bill in his hand.  "How's this, Susan?" said he.  "How can ye be so
white buttress of his forehead smote the ship's starboard bow, till
you had never heard my father speak of her personal misfortunes,
I'd seen it so slowly.
Where is he?  20:8 He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be
The nightmare of the stone horse was increased by the white fog,
To my mind, (whence it comes I know not,) spectral in mist of a
exalted them of low degree,'" answered the clerk.

are his delight.
1:1 The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth.

  Bar. He


her: she gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and
think, that the mass of ordinary men are a pack of dirty modern
files per month:  1240 more eBooks in 2001 for a total of 4000+
loved.  It was the picture of Mrs. Villars in a small bracelet.  It
"I rather think you are mistaken, for when I
40:4 And the man said unto me, Son of man, behold with thine eyes, and

32:29 O that they were wise, that they understood this, that they
saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes. Even so dealt David
5:30 And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it from
5:12 He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of
and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who
90:11 Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy
herself--remained in a heavy stupor.  Elinor, catching all,
next ensuing season.  Yet the premature hour of the Pequod's sailing
From his own evil, and for the time remained 
kings shall serve themselves of him.
Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.
According to this little plan of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under
not leave to my husband neither name nor remainder upon the earth.
limbs were helpless with excess of glee.

a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came
of autumn were for a while put by, unless some tender sonnet,

Eliab the firstborn, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third
11:22 Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church


Lord: 5:15 And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord
of his shoulders."

will not let thee go, except thou bless me.
To any thing, every thing--to time, chance, circumstance, slow effects,
William's side, by which she offended Mrs. Ferrars and
could be seen the back of some long terrace of tall Parisian houses,
crime would have sobered Syme, and cured him of all his merely
king and the children of the queen.
the year!  Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?  But there they
wilderness.
It is a quiet noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French
when Tashtego, his harpooneer, whose eyes had been setting to
we burned Ziklag with fire.
37:8 Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise
I know."
24:18 And he that killeth a beast shall make it good; beast for beast.
clinging crew, at the other drifting end, could not succor him; more
fatherless, and the widow, that are within thy gates.
who have no right."
his heart.
crew in rotation shall mount the deck to see that all goes well.
   Macb. O, full of Scorpions is my Minde, deare Wife:
25:45 Moreover of the children of the strangers that do sojourn among

And the schoolmistress that pass'd on her way to the school,



out 'The Queen! The Queen!' and the three gardeners instantly threw
Carlo was not mistaken in his predictions; he and Francisco became very
it was, perhaps, for Elizabeth's sake.  There might really have been
"I'll ask nobody!  Surely we know better what's right and wrong than Tom
"No," said Hal, "nor can it be explained:  if you don't understand it,
the most high over all the earth.
broke in two, and the bow fell from his hands.
The winde sits in the shoulder of your saile,
 And dream they see their child
petition? and it shall be granted thee: and what is thy request? even

that shade between blue, violet and grey which can be seen in
seems to me unquestionably urgent that--"
no longer.  This picture, she had allowed herself to believe,

When it is lighted, come and call me here

"Here," cried he, returning in about five minutes, quite out of breath,
By you, your banks Connecticut,
helped me.
47:12 And by the river upon the bank thereof, on this side and on that
life now be precious in thy sight.
Men who attend the altar, and should most 
marry than to burn.

And you mountain sides, and the woods where my dear children's
20:12 And Jonathan said unto David, O LORD God of Israel, when I have
would not dislike that.  Sir Frederick and Lady Wentworth!
the servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead: for
the staves to bear it withal.

shops fell back into a sort of abrupt twilight and quiet, in which
Lord J.  But if I have any ear, one of your lines is a foot too long, Mr.
of hers that you have just been reading about; and when she had
as could make me regret having asked _more_ than Jane Fairfax
as she assisted Marianne from the carriage, that she
      Whose treasure on the celestial shore
10:5 Then arose Ezra, and made the chief priests, the Levites, and all
to prove anything.  But if we went to sea one at a time in strict order
mentioned with approbation for his great good-nature in doing something
have given it to anyone who did not deserve it."

When Adam waked, so customed; for his sleep 

21:11 And they journeyed from Oboth, and pitched at Ijeabarim, in the
the moment made her resolve to restrain herself when she did speak.
Trippers and askers surround me,
to see the crystal palace and the wonderful garden and the great forest;
17:18 Nevertheless a lad saw them, and told Absalom: but they went
added another motive), to watch Sir Walter and Mrs Clay.
said unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt
and without an ephod, and without teraphim: 3:5 Afterward shall the
24:28 And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he

And in his Royaltie of Nature reignes that
[BOOK XV]
17:8 And he shall not look to the altars, the work of his hands,
Should haue a backe or second, that might hold,
picturesque beauty was.  I detest jargon of every kind,
11:6 In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not
a nurse by profession, and who had always a home in that house
mature man who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has
them round about against thee, and will discover thy nakedness unto
The potent poyson quite ore-crowes my spirit,
with the blood.

beg some honey for Mrs. Strathspey, who could not breakfast without it.
him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went no
That he who blesseth himself in the earth shall bless himself in the


The mountains? prairie-life, bush-life? or sailor from the sea?
But when I hear of the brotherhood of lovers, how it was with them,
slapping the air with big broad fins of steel.  When it came about
I wish to infuse myself among you till I see it common for you to
pleased, half vexed.  "What is that, I wonder?  You don't mean PRAISE, do
I saw the interminable corps, I saw the processions of armies,
"'You don't mean to go a begging to HIM!' said a sailor.
The old customs and phrases are confronted, turn'd back, or laid away.
wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em.  Hem, hem, hem; here
     "Do you seriously mean--" began the official.
SUMMER ISLANDS.

7:28 And now, O Lord GOD, thou art that God, and thy words be true,
from the sword, and his young men shall be discomfited.
I could not have stood it.  For where she DOES dislike,

the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be.

8:2 And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison of you?


knowest what thou oughtest to do unto him; but his hoar head bring
6:18 The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing, and
what do you want with me here?"
119:55 I have remembered thy name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept
"Woo-hoo!  Wa-hee!" screamed the Gay-Header in reply, raising some
the month, that David's place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan
"Nothing, nothing at all," replied Grandfather Frog mildly. "I was just
Samson out of the prison house; and he made them sport: and they set
unnecessary by their four selves, still was it not too small for
18:24 And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent

the same skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph.  What seems most
pretty near to each other, Stubb hailed the mate.
The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Galatians
son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's

their leader originally leaped there when a stick was held.  There's
forth to war; 1:37 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe

augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores.
bruised, and must have been killed."
    butcher in his killing-clothes,
in it), Mr. Edward Ferrars, it seems, has been engaged

David were chief about the king.





drink of that which the young men have drawn.

In recompence for such compliance bad 
Through me many long dumb voices,
of corruption: for of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he
on the irreparable injury which too early an independence
11:16 Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his

23:33 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 23:34 Speak unto the
their necks to the work of their LORD.
Before the present object languishing 

thought I should ever be like Miss Bates! so silly--so satisfied--
     "Very good wine," said Father Brown, gravely lifting his glass,
47:3 And when the man that had the line in his hand went forth

mates stood up proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with
"I am an angel, and thou art the king!"
Suspition of the deed
he said politely, "and he did get the whole estate after all."
in the circle, that Emma began to doubt whether the wish now indulged,

no resurrection, and asked him, 22:24 Saying, Master, Moses said, If a
If thou reade this, O Caesar, thou mayest liue;
disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company.
but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
lifting the boy up on his knee; "YOUR sister Susan is good-natured."  The
5:1 This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God
thus be he shaken out, and emptied. And all the congregation said,
2:10 Have we not all one father? hath not one God created us? why do
the faces of all thy servants, which this day have saved thy life, and
Kohathites, who were of the children of Levi, had: for theirs was the
gravel walls and the gay flower-beds and the long rectangular




pronounced, the attorney was upon the point of swearing that he would
of Gera: he came forth, and cursed still as he came.
his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffeth at them.
that old man has a sort of turned me wrong side out.  By the Lord, I
   Hor. 'Tis heere
calm and indolent spoutings; not by the peaceable gush of that mystic

that luck which so often defies anticipation in matrimonial affairs,
the importunate demands which this politeness made on it,
without display; he judged for himself in everything essential,
Here and there, human nature may be great in times of trial;
circumcision contended with him, 11:3 Saying, Thou wentest in to men
"You and Miss Smith, and Miss Fairfax, will be three, and the two
out the corn; but I passed over upon her fair neck: I will make
but still I have no doubt that James will take you very safely.
in being the result as she trusted of serious reflection,
a bird.  What he was singing it was not very easy to follow, but
     "And a priest, too, I suppose," said Dalroy in an undecipherable manner.


Mary's present, and went to the little manufactory at Rossmore Castle, to
The delicious singing of the mother, or of the young wife at work,
"Give me a chance, then," said the Englishman, good-humoredly.
3:9 The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count
"Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?" said

came pitifully to an end.  Caught upon its prickly angle, however,
44:15 Then all the men which knew that their wives had burned incense

32:7 Thou art my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble;
of a cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen


Dances for thee I propose saluting thee, adornments and feastings for thee,
fire.
like this confounded island seems the last place where one would

and that Attorney Case was to leave the parish in a month, soon spread
22:8 He trusted on the LORD that he would deliver him: let him deliver

inexhaustible resources of our scientific civilization.  He no
will come, though it is not come yet--I am sure, I should like to have a
The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks
1:24 And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three

Willoughby!"--
abound?  6:2 God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any
 
9:12 When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he
"Upon my honour I did.--I met Colonel Brandon
With turbulent and dangerous Lunacy
96:1 O sing unto the LORD a new song: sing unto the LORD, all the
So wonderously was set his station bright. 
decidedly, that "if the money was given to her to dispose of as she
twenty years.
weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice' den.

boy; he saw a new youth opening before him.  And as not

His evils seemed to lessen, her own advantages to increase,
in the anguish of her heart, "Oh! Elinor, I am miserable,
willing, for their parts, to give up every farthing of the money.  They
Syme's laughter at all this had about it a wild weakness of relief.

Willoughby went away before we could get through it.
behaviour to each other declared to have taken place,
   Son. Why should I Mother?
"But just struck."