Donald Trump was rushed to safety on Sunday after what the FBI termed an apparent assassination attempt at his golf course in West Palm Beach, Florida.
Ryan Wesley Routh, 58, was arrested and charged with firearms offences.
The incident comes almost exactly two months after a shooting at a Trump rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, which left the Republican nominee with minor injuries and killed a man in the crowd.
Here is what we know so far about Sunday.
The incident unfolded at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, about 15 minutes from Trump's Florida residence, Mar-a-Lago.
A gunman was first seen by Secret Service agents, who were sweeping the course.
Agents usually go one hole ahead to perform security checks, according to police.
The muzzle of a rifle - an SKS semi-automatic - was spotted sticking through the shrubbery that lines the course.
At the time, Trump was about 300-500 yards (275-460m) away from the spot.
An agent "immediately engaged" with the person holding the rifle, who fled, Sheriff Rik Bradshaw said.
The suspect did not fire his weapon during the incident.
On 16 September, acting Secret Service director Ron Rowe said Trump was "across the course and out of sight of the sixth green" when the Secret Service agent opened fire.
At no point is the suspect believed to have had a clear line of sight to the former president.
Records show that Routh's phone had been in the area for about 12 hours, from around 02:00 to 13:31 local time, according to court documents and police officials.
Agents fired four to five rounds of ammunition upon seeing the gun muzzle.
The suspect dropped the rifle and fled in a vehicle, abandoning the weapon along with two bags, a scope for his rifle and a GoPro camera, Sheriff Bradshaw said.
A witness saw the gunman flee from the shrubbery to a black Nissan SUV, the sheriff said.
The witness captured a photo of the vehicle and provided it to law enforcement.
The suspect was arrested by police driving northbound on the I-95 highway after crossing into Martin County, roughly 61km (38 miles) from Trump's golf course.
The car was later determined to have licence plates belonging to a 2012 Ford that had previously been reported stolen.
Routh has an extensive criminal history dating back to the 1990s.
In 2002, he was convicted in Greensboro, North Carolina, for possession of a fully automatic machine gun - characterised as a weapon of "mass death and destruction".
